**Eddie AI** is now available in Final Cut Pro! 🥳

**Shamir Allibhai** writes:

> Imagine if you could just "prompt" your clips in Final Cut Pro to create a great story.<br />
> Scratch that. You don’t need to imagine: "ChatGPT" capabilities have arrived for FCP.
>
> And the big week for Eddie AI just got even bigger.<br />
> (🎥 Launch video part 3, below...watch to the end 😉)
>
> First Premiere Pro.<br />
> Then DaVinci Resolve.<br />
> And now... Final Cut Pro. 🍎✂️
>
> Eddie — the AI assistant video editor for pros — is now integrated with all three major video editing applications. That means wherever you cut, whatever your workflow, Eddie and its advanced AI models are there to make you more efficient.
>
> And quite frankly, to liberate you.
>
> 📥 Import footage (multicam, sync, compound, and all)<br />
> 🧠 Find the story<br />
> 🗂️ Log b-rolls<br />
> ✂️ Cut roughs<br />
> ✨ Export projects/timelines, ready to polish
>
> ⏳ Hours, if not days → now minutes ⚡
>
> Try Eddie for free — 2 full projects/month, no credit card required

You can learn more on the [Eddie AI website](https://heyeddie.ai).

You can also read about this new integration on [RedShark News](https://www.redsharknews.com/eddie-ai-scores-hat-trick-of-nle-integrations).

---

## Discuss this page

<script src="https://giscus.app/client.js"
        data-repo="CommandPost/FCPCafe"
        data-repo-id="MDEwOlJlcG9zaXRvcnk5NTAwMjEwMg=="
        data-category="Website Discussions"
        data-category-id="DIC_kwDOBamd9s4CW0qy"
        data-mapping="pathname"
        data-strict="0"
        data-reactions-enabled="1"
        data-emit-metadata="0"
        data-input-position="bottom"
        data-theme="dark"
        data-lang="en"
        data-loading="lazy"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>
