# 2025

## June

### [4th June 2025](/news/20250604)

**FxPlug v4.3.3** is out now! 🥳

FxPlug is the effects engine for Apple's Motion and Final Cut Pro.

It includes the following improvements and bug fixes:

- FxPlug SDK is now supported on machines running macOS 11.0 and above.
- Added ability for plug-ins to close a remote window.
- Added tagged pop-up menus so that plug-ins can rearrange the items or add new items between existing items without having to change their parameter handling code.
- Added compatibility with older versions of Final Cut Pro, Motion and Compressor and support for macOS 11.0 and above.
- OpenGL is deprecated. Please update your plugins to work with Metal.
- Fixed an issue that would cause dynamically registered FxPlugs to not load during a “Send To Compressor” event.
- Fixed an issue where anamorphic footage was improperly cropped during analysis.
- Fixed an issue where the `FxCustomParameterAPI’s -currentTime` method could return an invalid time.
- Deprecated the `-[FxImageTile openGLTextureForContext:]` method.

You can download FxPlug on the [Apple Developer Downloads website](https://developer.apple.com/download/all/?q=FxPlug).

We'll look into updating BRAW Toolbox and Gyroflow Toolbox ASAP.

---

## Discuss this page

<script src="https://giscus.app/client.js"
        data-repo="CommandPost/FCPCafe"
        data-repo-id="MDEwOlJlcG9zaXRvcnk5NTAwMjEwMg=="
        data-category="Website Discussions"
        data-category-id="DIC_kwDOBamd9s4CW0qy"
        data-mapping="pathname"
        data-strict="0"
        data-reactions-enabled="1"
        data-emit-metadata="0"
        data-input-position="bottom"
        data-theme="dark"
        data-lang="en"
        data-loading="lazy"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>
