**Dev Benegal’s** film on James Ivory for The Metropolitan Museum of Art, titled **An Arrested Moment** was won Best Short Documentary at the New York Indian Film Festival’s 25th Anniversary edition. 🥳

You can read a case study about the film on [FCP Cafe](/case-studies/an-arrested-moment/).

The official press release says:

> On Friday, June 20th, after the Opening Night Screening at the 25th Anniversary Edition of the
> New York Indian Film Festival, Festival Director, Aseem Chhabra, and filmmaker, Anurag
> Kashyap, presented the award for Best Short Documentary to director Dev Benegal for his film
> ‘An Arrested Moment’ in collaboration with Navina Haidar, Nasser Sabah al-Ahmad al-
> Sabah Curator in Charge of Islamic Art at The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The film was
> produced by Min(d) Studio’s Maya S. Patel and Neeraj Jain.
>
> ‘An Arrested Moment’ is about James Ivory’s relationship to India, his deep admiration for
> Indian art, and his love for storytelling. The film transports viewers into images of Indian
> painting, drawing, and photography that have inspired Ivory’s work over the years.
> On seeing Indian miniatures for the first time as a young man, Ivory said, “Something just
> clicked — like falling in love.”
>
> Benegal says, “Celebrating James Ivory and collaborating with Navina Haidar, has been a deep
> dive into the soul of India and Indian art. There were no divisions or boundaries when these
> masterpieces were being created. To film Jim, and hear his journey through art and film has
> been an experience of a lifetime. As a filmmaker, I could not be more fortunate.”
>
> The film is a collaboration between The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Islamic Art Department
> and Min(d) Studio for the exhibition Ink and Ivory, Indian Drawings and Photographs Selected
> with James Ivory, on display in the Museum’s Hagop Kevorkian Gallery from July 29, 2024–May
> 4, 2025. It had a special premiere at The Met’s Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium in the fall of
> 2024 with over 700 guests in attendance.
>
> Haidar says, “Presenting Indian painting and photography through the lens of James Ivory’s life
> and work and Dev Benegal’s filmic imagination, created a unique addition to the exhibition.”
>
> Min(d) Studio was founded by Dev Benegal, Maya S. Patel, and Neeraj Jain with a shared vision
> to tell stories about people and cultures that are often unheard and unseen — championing
> stories that can spark conversation outside the walls of the cinema.

You can watch a trailer for the film on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QK3ITN0wv8s).

---

## Discuss this page

<script src="https://giscus.app/client.js"
        data-repo="CommandPost/FCPCafe"
        data-repo-id="MDEwOlJlcG9zaXRvcnk5NTAwMjEwMg=="
        data-category="Website Discussions"
        data-category-id="DIC_kwDOBamd9s4CW0qy"
        data-mapping="pathname"
        data-strict="0"
        data-reactions-enabled="1"
        data-emit-metadata="0"
        data-input-position="bottom"
        data-theme="dark"
        data-lang="en"
        data-loading="lazy"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>
