**CorridorKey by LateNite v1.0.0 (Build 7)** is now up on TestFlight.

It contains the following changes:

**🔨 Improvements:**
- Added the ability to load custom background colours and custom images into the Standalone Editor.
- Cleaned up the launch screen on the Standalone Editor.
- Opening Final Cut Pro from the Standalone Editor no longer quits the Standalone Editor.
- **Spill Method** now defaults to **Ultra (Chroma Project)**.
- Cleaned up the header section in the Final Cut Pro Effects Inspector to better match the Standalone Editor.
- Improvements to the on-screen controls in Final Cut Pro.
- Improvements to how we handle the colour space in Final Cut Pro, which improves the Apple Vision Framework Hint pipeline.

This is still very much a work-in-progress, so ideas, feedback, comments and suggestions welcome!

Once our fancy new icon is ready, we'll release on the Mac App Store.

You can learn more on the [CorridorKey by LateNite website](https://corridorkeybylatenite.fcp.cafe).

---

## Discuss this page

<script src="https://giscus.app/client.js"
        data-repo="CommandPost/FCPCafe"
        data-repo-id="MDEwOlJlcG9zaXRvcnk5NTAwMjEwMg=="
        data-category="Website Discussions"
        data-category-id="DIC_kwDOBamd9s4CW0qy"
        data-mapping="pathname"
        data-strict="0"
        data-reactions-enabled="1"
        data-emit-metadata="0"
        data-input-position="bottom"
        data-theme="dark"
        data-lang="en"
        data-loading="lazy"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>
