---
label: 7th November 2023
meta:
  title: "News - 7th November 2023"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**Blackmagic Camera 1.2** is out now!

Get more precise positioning of control dials, support for 6 additional languages, better layout of onscreen controls while in zoom mode, support for flicker-free shutter presets and more.

Here's the full feature list:

> - Control dials now offer haptic feedback and higher accuracy.
> - Support for 6 additional languages including Chinese, Japanese and Spanish.
> - Improved layouts for iPhones with display zoom enabled.
> - Improved animations for player and slate views in all iPhone models.
> - Improved animations for stealth mode in smaller iPhone models.
> - Improved organization and grouping of camera settings.
> - Support for selecting a specific onboard microphone.
> - Support to maintain zebra, peaking and false color during recording.
> - Support for flipping the image for SLR lenses.
> - Support for flicker free shutter presets for 50 and 60 Hz settings.
> - Support for recording clip with LUT and tagging color space.
> - Ability to export and import camera settings presets.
> - Improved grid controls with horizon detection.
> - Selectable time lapse duration in settings.
> - Ability to drag clips between projects in the media panel.
> - Support for iOS shortcut automation workflows.
> - Multiple fixes for recording HUD.
> - Apple Log to Rec.709 LUT is now included.
> - Ability to turn off uploads when on data.
> - General performance and stability improvements.

You can learn more on the iPhone App Store [here](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/blackmagic-camera/id6449580241).