---
label: 24th January 2024
meta:
  title: "News - 24th January 2024"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**Metaburner v1.0.6 (34)** has been released. It includes the following updates:

🔨 **Changes:**
- Metaburner Presets now have the file extension `metaburnerPreset` (instead of `mbpPreset`).
- The Metaburner Motion Template has been updated.

🔨 **Improvements:**
- Lots of big under-the-hood improvements. Metaburner now can handle very complicated and long feature film timelines without dropping frames. Thanks for reporting Sam Pluemacher!
- Added a new **Open in Motion** button to **Controls**. This allows you to easily create a new Apple Motion Template which you can customise however you want!
- We've moved the **Open User Guide** to the top of **Controls** so that it's more obvious.
- We no longer display "Text Layer 1", "Text Layer 2", etc in the Final Cut Pro Inspector to make it cleaner.
- We now save and restore **Empty Data**, **Filter by Video Role** and **Filter by Audio Role** in Presets.
- We've added a built-in **Stabilisation** Preset.
- Improved the error messaging when a FCPXML fails to load.
- Added a checkbox to **Save FCPXML Internally** within the **Controls** section. This is off by default. You'll only ever really need to turn it on if you want to access the FCPXML data via the Lua Scripting Engine.

🐞 **Bug Fixes:**
- Metaburner now correctly renders when in **Half Resolution** in Apple Motion and **Better Performance** in Final Cut Pro.
- Final Cut Pro now allows you to copy and paste the Metaburner Title. Thanks for reporting Sam Pluemacher!

You can learn more [here](https://metaburner.fcp.cafe).