---
label: 23rd October 2024
meta:
  title: "News - 23rd October 2024"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**Colourlab Ai 3 Pro** is out now!

This is a major update!

> **Gen3.2 Color Matching Engine:**
> Colourlab AI 3.2 Pro introduces the first neural engine to work natively in ACES. It’s a multi-modal engine, supporting multiple types of image analysis for optimal color matching results. Trained on over 10 million custom-developed images, it automates color management without relying on metadata—purely analyzing the content of your image. The new auto-balance feature is just the beginning.
>
> **Native Integration with DaVinci Resolve, Nuke, and Baselight:**
> Colourlab AI Pro now works natively inside these platforms. No more sending sequences in and out—just drag and drop the plugin onto your clip to access the full functionality previously available only through the desktop application.
>
> **Floating License, Server-Based:**
> With this release, Colourlab AI Pro can now operate as a server-based application. One system in your facility can handle all the color matching, allowing all other systems to connect and use the same smart color metadata for perfect results.
>
> **Real-Time Performance:**
> Colourlab AI Pro works in real time, supporting 4K and even 8K workflows, depending on the power of your system. The AI processing happens entirely on your device—no cloud, no extra costs—ensuring faster and more efficient work.
>
> **Flexible Color Management:**
> You’re no longer limited to ARRI Log C. Colourlab AI Pro works seamlessly in ACES, DaVinci Wide Gamut, and virtually any color space you prefer. The new Colourlab AI OFX plugin supports all imaginable color spaces, giving you maximum flexibility.
>
> **Reference Sharing:**
> Just like its desktop counterpart, Colourlab AI Pro allows you to share reference looks and images across projects effortlessly.

You can learn more [here](https://colourlab.ai/pro/).