---
label: 19th January 2024
meta:
  title: "News - 19th January 2024"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**evrExpanse v4.2.0** is out now!

Here's their press release:

> evrExpanse 4.2.0 Ushers in a New Era of Media Management with Enhanced Offload Engine
> Milan, January 9, 2024 – EVRapp, a leading innovator in metadata-centric applications for videomakers, proudly announces the release of evrExpanse 4.2.0, a groundbreaking update that transforms the landscape of media management.
>
> **What's New in evrExpanse 4.2.0:**
> 🚀 Enhanced Transfer Engine: Our Offload function is now turbocharged, delivering significantly faster file transfers compared to previous versions. Experience a speed boost that will revolutionise the way you manage your media and files.
> 📊 Genuine Multicore Experience: Harness the full power of your Mac, whether it's Intel-based or Apple Silicon. The enhanced transfer engine intelligently utilises all available cores, ensuring optimal performance for a seamless workflow.
>
> **Key Features of evrExpanse 4.2.0:**
> - **Efficient Offload Process with Secure Data Transfer:** The introduction of the Offloading Data Process ensures a streamlined and secure transfer of media files. The Offload function, empowered by the xxh64 hash function, guarantees comprehensive checksum verification, providing users with confidence in data integrity during transfers.
> - **Comprehensive Metadata Support:** evrExpanse 4 boasts enhanced metadata workflow support for a wide range of cameras and file types, including MOV, MP4, MXF, and NEV. This compatibility ensures a seamless import of metadata into various NLEs, streamlining the post-production workflow.
> - **Smart Transcoding and Metadata Integration:** The Smart Transcoding mode analyses audio and video streams, deciding whether to apply transcoding or passthrough based on the codec type. This ensures optimal quality preservation, and metadata integration facilitates a smooth editing experience.
> - **Process Plus© - Streamlined Workflow for NLEs:** Process Plus© integrates transcoding, offloading, and metadata export into a single, cohesive operation. This streamlined workflow not only enhances efficiency but also ensures seamless integration with popular Non-Linear Editing systems (NLEs) like Final Cut Pro®, DaVinci Resolve®, and Assimilate SCRATCH®.
> - **Seal Processed Folders with ASC MHL or MHL v1:** Users can seal processed folders using either ASC MHL or the legacy MHL v1. This feature ensures the creation of Media Hash List (MHL) files, tracking the integrity of all media files and providing a reference for digital motion picture production.
>
> **Note:** The demo version of evrExpanse 4.2.0 has no limitations on the Offload function, allowing users to experience its full power before making a purchase.
>
> Existing evrExpanse 4 users can upgrade to the latest version free of charge.
>
> **About the Developer:**
> Antonio Marogna is one-man band in photography and multimedia production.
> Founder, antoinedelaroche - Photography and Multimedia Production.
> Founder, evrApp.cloud, an innovative software project dedicated to improving the accessibility and utility of metadata for media files within video editing platforms.

You can learn more [here](https://www.evrapp.cloud).