---
label: 2nd August 2024
meta:
  title: "News - 2nd August 2024"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**PostWatch 4** is out now!

PostWatch now connects directly to the Notifications database so it no longer needs to read the Notification Center through the UI. This has major impacts on PostWatch:

- Special Notification Center settings are no longer required.
- Applications no longer need to have Notification Center alerts enabled.
- Intel and Apple Silicon Macs work equally the same.
- The PostWatch Screensaver is no longer needed.
- You can use the macOS System Screensavers, Display Sleep and Screen Lock freely.
- The Optimizer has been re-worked with some sections now optional.

It also includes the following changes:

- **Lite** (free) and **Pro** (paid) editions. Many advanced features are now part of the Pro Edition. Pro is a one-time paid non-subscription model.
- **Improved:** Supports interacting with macOS in any language.
- **Improved:** Greatly expanded language support for post-production applications, including: Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Swedish, Dutch and more.
- **New:** Guided setup walks users through the Pushover signup and Key/Token configuration with PostWatch.
- **Improved:** Modernized the Settings window as well as many of the modal alerts.
- **New:** Application Activity Watcher. Observe an applications’ background processes and send an alert when complete. (Pro) Good for applications that aren’t already integrated into PostWatch. (Premiere Pro, Topaz Video AI, etc.)
- **New:** Toggling between Light and Dark modes.
- **New:** Manual language selection for menu and interface.
- **New:** Disable watching of specific applications.
- **Updated:** Support for ff·Works 4.
- **Improved:** Reworked code for EditReady. Alerts now contain the number of files completed as well as alerts for failed conversions.
- **Improved:** Reworked code for Media Encoder. Fixes issues with the reliability of alerts.
- **New:** Clicking the menu’s Watcher Status shows a list of currently watched applications. Also clicking Recent Problems gives a detailed list of issues.
- …and many other fixes and stability improvements.

You can learn more [here](https://chrisroyfilms.com/postwatch/).