---
label: 14th January 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 14th January 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

Slightly old news now (4th January), but **Gyroflow Toolbox v1.3.3 (Build 25)** is out now on the Mac App Store!

It contains the following improvements:

- Gyroflow Toolbox can now handle video files greater than 8192 pixels (as long as your GPU supports it). Thanks for reporting mhbsavant!
- We've updated to the latest Gyroflow Core Renderer. HUGE thank you to the amazing [AdrianEddy](https://github.com/AdrianEddy) for all his ongoing help, assistance, genius and support!
- 28 lens profiles have been updated from the hero Gyroflow project. Thanks to EVERYONE who has submitted lens profiles and another HUGE thank you to AdrianEddy for all the work that goes into managing them.

We also missed the **Gyroflow Toolbox v1.3.2 (Build 24)** released on FCP Cafe (18th Nov) which contained:

**🐞 Bug Fix:**
- Fixed a bug where vertical (9x16) clips would not stabilise correctly in Final Cut Pro. If you now set the **Input Rotation** and **Video Rotation** to `90` in Gyroflow Toolbox, things should now render correctly.

**🔨 Improvements:**
- We've updated to the latest Gyroflow Core Renderer. HUGE thank you to the amazing [AdrianEddy](https://github.com/AdrianEddy) for all his ongoing help, assistance, genius and support!
- 6 lens profiles have been updated from the hero Gyroflow project. Thanks to EVERYONE who has submitted lens profiles and another HUGE thank you to [AdrianEddy](https://github.com/AdrianEddy) for all the work that goes into managing them.