---
label: 5th February 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 5th February 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**Strada V90 (agent version v2026.2.3)** is out now!

The Strada team writes:

> In this release we have continued our focus on support and stability of agents.
>
> **Bug Fixes:**
> - Fixes issue where agents are stuck in "Disconnecting"
> - If this ever does happen again we added a button to reset them instead of having to paste the terminal command
> - Fixes issue where speed tests were coming back with very low and incorrect results
> - Windows does not allow for automatic updates, so they are now disabled rather then updating and breaking because it requires user confirmation. Overall the windows install and update process is much smoother.
> - NOTE: We still have one more improvement we are making here around windows asking many times for authentication credentials
> - Added a Strada Doctor feature for support to help us identify any issues with one simple command
> - Many improvements to our auto-update functionality
> - Many improvements to auto-retrying various pieces of the agent removing the need to manually restart it
> - Many improvements to our bandwidth limiter / Speed test
>
> **New features:**
> - We've added SORTING! Sort by kind, name, date, etc...
> - We've added IN APP support. Message us directly from in the app. While we love our Discord community we want to make it easy and fast to reach us. Also it gives us some extra information so we can support you faster without asking you for it first.
>
> **Minor fixes/changes:**
> - The jobs panel hyperlink now opens the jobs panel
> - Checking available drives immediately after agent is started now works
> - Refreshes. When connecting an agent, inviting a user, connecting a drive. The app now updates without having to refresh the page. We've made a lot of steps forward and will continue to do so!
> - We have added a left navigation component as our app continues to expand. The jobs panel is now available there instead of the top right.

You can learn more about [Strada on their website](https://strada.tech).