---
label: 15th January 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 15th January 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**Strada Agent v2026.1.14 (88)** is out now!

It contains the following improvements:

> Some fun updates for you all:
>
> - You can now create a folder! Need to transfer to a location that doesn't exist? Make it!
> - New users and collaborators now have a step-by-step onboarding experience to get started easier
> - Jobs details MODAL. You can now open up an expanded view of a job and see every file, how big it is, a thumbnail, and its transfer status.
>
> **Bug Fixes:**
> - Breadcrumbs now stay after a refresh
> - UNC path on windows
> - Agents now load individually in the left nav and show an error state when they can't be reached due to a network error
> - Agents going offline and not trying to restart themselves
> - Auto-Updates ( NOTE: If you are on an older agent you will need to manually update to this version and then auto-updates should work here on out )
> - Some jobs were not showing as complete until refreshing the page, they looked stuck but they were done
> - Cleaned up states for folder not existing or you no longer having access so you know exactly what is going on with a certain folder
> - thumbnails on mobile
> - many many many more!
>
> **SNEAK PEAK of the coming month:**
> - We are working on launching our new license server which will allow you to buy and manage licenses on behalf of others or your team!
> - We have a Alpha version of our new Virtual File Editing technology. We will post more here about how to get involved in the coming weeks.
> - Raw playback support. Starting with Blackmagic Raw we will support remote viewing of raw files in our video player on web and mobile WITHOUT having to create a proxy or upload anything to a cloud.
>
> Happy new year everyone! We are starting a new initiative called the feature of the week so look here soon for our next little feature: Sorting!

You can learn more about [Strada on their website](https://strada.tech).