---
label: 19th January 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 19th January 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**CommandPost v1.6.0** is out now!

Apologies for the delay - I've been holding off updating to macOS Tahoe, simply because I really hate the decisions Apple have made in terms of App Icons, and [their user interface design in general](https://tonsky.me/blog/tahoe-icons/).

However, each day I was getting 10+ emails from people really wanting to use CommandPost's **Timeline Batch Export** on Tahoe, so I've finally updated, and pushed out a new CommandPost update.

This release includes the following changes:

**🎉 New Features:**
- JKWTCN has added a new WebSocket Control Surfaces Panel, so you can easily trigger CommandPost actions via WebSocket messages. Thanks heaps for your contribution JKWTCN!

**💪 Changes:**
- Updated the CommandPost application icon for macOS Tahoe. Thanks [Matthew Skiles](https://matthewskiles.com)!
- Removed Notion Toolbox and Shot Data Toolbox.
- Removed the in-app Feedback form. We now just link to the website.
- Updated various website URLs.

**🐞 Bug Fixes:**
- Fixed a bug which caused Timeline Batch Export to generate a "Failed to get the original Filename" error on macOS Tahoe. Thanks for reporting karelkasik-droid, ok-kenji, fiona-gray, savvas215, godloveeric and many others!
- Fixed a bug in the Sony Timecode Repair Toolbox that would show a DTD validation error on Final Cut Pro 11.0.1 and later. Thanks for reporting rileyendicott, asohawramii and many others!
- Fixed a bug which prevented the Stream Deck Mini Button 1 from working. Thanks for reporting SungChul Kang!
- Renée Köcher fixed a bug that prevented menubar's from updating correctly on macOS 15 Sequoia and later. Thanks Renée!

You can learn more and download on the [CommandPost website](https://commandpost.fcp.cafe).