---
label: 21st March 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 21st March 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**Strada v2026.3.17** is out now.

Austin Case explains:

> Hey @everyone we launched Strada V99 (V100 is in the queue already!!! CRAZY!!!) with agent version 2026.3.17 🔥
>
> In this release we shipped a HUGE AND SUPER COOL feature... UPLOAD LINKS this is available to everyone for a limited time but will ultimately be moved to our unlimited plan at $24/month/user 🤯
>
> - On any folder that you have Edit or Admin permissions to you can create a public link for users to drop files into. The goal of this is so that users do NOT have to sign up, install an agent, just to give you a few files. This is limited to 2GB files and 10GB total... of course if you want to transfer more then that, you can always invite that user to the folder. They just have to go through the sign up and then they can transfer unlimited amounts!
> - Upload Link features
>  - Set a custom name for the link
>  - Optionally set a password for the link
>  - Optionally set an expiration for the link
>  - Send an email with a custom message right to people from within Strada
> - Link Library! On the left hand side of Strada is a new 'links' page! Here you can see ALL the links you have made or others have made on your agents. You can manage these links at anytime, changing their settings, copying the link, etc...
>
> This was a feature we started JUST two weeks ago. For many months the engineering team at Strada has been focused on building foundational elements and we can feel the momentum build where we get to build cool features like this in a super short amount of time at a high quality. Thank you to some of you who found the feature and have helped us work out some of the day 1 quirks. We have a few more releasing over the coming days!
>
> **Fixes:**
> - Everywhere in the app now displays the correct filesize / jobsize / etc... we were previously showing you the size in base 2 instead of base 10 🤓
> - Rotated Videos now rotate
> - Job gets stuck initializing even after refresh
>
> We now support playback of Blackmagic RAW (beta)!! This is very exciting because its the first demonstration of RAW in Strada. We are the first product that allows for instant remote playback of a RAW file regardless of bandwidth.
>
> This is a step towards the future. Where there is no more online/offline workflows. No duplication of media via proxies.
>
> The future filmmaker who is in 5th grade right now will not know how difficult digital file formats USED to be and how much it effected everything. How much you had to learn. Its like the future engineer who won't know what it was like to learn to code without AI.
>
> Notes/Limitations
> the source computer must be macOS but users can playback the files on any desktop or mobile platform
> no audio support (obviously not very common except for scratch tracks, but just noting)
>
> Anyways, we will keep adding more formats over time... but cheers 🍻  to the next step in building a future where you shoot and edit without worrying about what file a computer is on, what format it is, or even your internet bandwidth!!

You can download and learn more on the [Strada website](https://strada.tech).