---
label: 23rd January 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 23rd January 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

As 2026 starts to really kick into gear, we thought we'd review all our application prices, and continue to update all our applications for **macOS 26 Tahoe**.

As you might have noticed on this blog, I'm not the biggest fan of the change to macOS icons in macOS 26 Tahoe, however, [Matthew Skiles](https://matthewskiles.com) has done an incredible job, as always, updating them without destroying their original magic and charm.

We'll also continue to use the "classic" icons on the website, in marketing/press and in the user interface, so it's really only the macOS Dock icons we're sadly changing.

Quite a few of our apps have now **dropped** in price (some substantially) - although we have increased the price of [Transfer Toolbox](https://transfertoolbox.fcp.cafe), based on the time needed to keep it updated. Who knows what adventure await when Apple Creator Studio ships!

{.compact}
Application      | Old Price      | New Price
-----------------|----------------|---------------
ATEM Exporter    | USD$79.99      | **USD$49.99**
BRAW Toolbox     | USD$79.99      | USD$79.99
Capacitor        | USD$19.99      | USD$19.99
CommandPost      | Free           | Still Free
Fast Collections | USD$9.99       | USD$9.99
Gyroflow Toolbox | USD$9.99       | USD$9.99
LUT Robot        | USD$99.99      | **USD$9.99**
Marker Toolbox   | USD$49.99      | **USD$19.99**
Metaburner       | USD$79.99      | **USD$19.99**
News Import      | USD$500.00     | **USD$9.99**
Recall Toolbox   | USD$29.99      | **USD$9.99**
Transfer Toolbox | USD$4.99       | **USD$9.99**

Noticeably, [News Import](https://newsimport.fcp.cafe) (which is an incredibly niche application, designed for a very specific workflow) allows you to import NewsML-G2 and VPMS metadata into Final Cut Pro. We've dropped the price from **USD$500.00** to only **USD$9.99**. 🥳

We've also dropped the price of [LUT Robot](https://lutrobot.fcp.cafe) to **USD$9.99**. It's a very niche application to automatically apply Camera LUTs to video files with matching filenames.

As we continue to add more applications to the Mac App Store, we'll try use this more consistent pricing as a base.

I expect we'll basically need to update all these applications again very soon with the release of Apple Creator Studio.

In terms of my collaborations, [Jumper](https://getjumper.io) & [Hedge Arctic](https://hedge.co/products/arctic) were already looking good on **macOS 26 Tahoe**, so no need for an update there!