---
label: 9th March 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 9th March 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

Since the announcement of the **MacBook Neo**, a lot of people have asked me if this laptop is suitable for Final Cut Pro?

The answer is... hell yes.

A lot of people are incorrectly saying that the A18 Pro chip is not "good enough", or that there's not enough RAM.

That's honestly just bullshit.

The MacBook Neo comes with:

> **Apple A18 Pro chip**
> - 6‑core CPU with 2 performance cores and 4 efficiency cores
> - 5‑core GPU
> - Hardware-accelerated ray tracing
> - 16-core Neural Engine
> - 60GB/s memory bandwidth
>
> **Media Engine**
> - Hardware-accelerated H.264, HEVC, ProRes, and ProRes RAW
> - Video decode engine
> - Video encode engine
> - ProRes encode and decode engine
> - AV1 decode

When it comes to playing back H.264, HEVC, ProRes and ProRes RAW - it doesn't really even need to put ANY load on the CPU/GPU - this is all decoded on-device.

It might only have **8GB unified memory**, but it has a super fast **256GB or 512GB SSD**, so once the system uses 8GB of RAM, it will just move "old memory" off to the SSD.

As long as you keep your 256/512GB internal drive relatively clean, and store all your non-Applications stuff on an external SSD or Network Drive - this thing will FLY.

If you think Final Cut Pro on iPad is snappy - Final Cut Pro on MacBook Neo will be AWESOME.

People love to complain... but I think the MacBook Neo will be the ultimate low-cost Final Cut Pro editing machine, and I'd still use this over the most expensive Windows machine running Resolve or Premiere.

My 2c.