---
label: 27th February 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 27th February 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**ScriptStar v1.3.3** is out now! 🥳

Yes, we jumped from `v1.1.0` to `v1.3.3` very quickly, haha. Thanks to all our awesome TestFlight testers! 🥰

This is a BIG update.

**🔨 Improvements:**
- It’s now possible to drag a **Library** or **one or more Events** to ScriptStar. If an Event is dragged, the Library location must be chosen in a following step. This allows users to save processing time in large libraries, and also to avoid `FCPXML` issues related to processing some kinds of clips in other Events.
- This release also adds a **Show Options** button to the page where `SRT`'s can optionally be added. Press this button to choose the conversion mode - **Named Favorites**, **Named Favorites on current Favorite ranges only** or **Notes on Keywords**. Please refer to the online [How to Use](/how-to-use/) page for more information on these modes. Thanks for suggesting Jeff Roy!
- All transcription formats (`CSV`, Word, `PDF`) can now be exported at once with a new button below the individual format choices.  Thanks for suggesting Richard Taylor!

**🐞 Bug Fixes:**
- A bug related to handling of clips at `47.95fps` was fixed in [FCPXMLKit](https://fcp.cafe/latenite/#fcpxmlkit). Thanks for reporting FernKraft!
- A bug related to handling of Point 2D data in FCPXML was fixed in [FCPXMLKit](https://fcp.cafe/latenite/#fcpxmlkit). Thanks for reporting Fernando Gorrotxategi Ugarte!

You can learn more and download on the [ScriptStar website](https://scriptstar.fcp.cafe).