---
label: 9th March 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 9th March 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**Jumper v2026.03.07 (Build 2984)** is out now.

It includes the following changes:

**🥳 New Features:**
- You can now reveal media files directly in Finder on macOS or File Explorer on Windows from the media list.
- Avid: You can now save Scan MXF Metadata results to a shared location so multiple machines can reuse them.

**🔨 Improvements:**
- The Settings view has been redesigned to make common options easier to find.
- Media list interactions are much faster, especially when selecting large numbers of files.
- If a speech download is missing, you now also see this in Watch Folders. Thanks for reporting Simon Cull!
- Large file and selection counts are easier to read at a glance.
- Windows file picking is faster when browsing large network drives.
- Speech analysis is more reliable with a wider range of audio files. Thanks for reporting Jim Young!
- Shared analysis folders work more reliably when multiple people use the same storage.
- DaVinci Resolve works better with media on mapped network drives. Thanks for reporting Claudio Domenicali!

**🐞 Bug Fixes:**

- Fixed Final Cut Pro 11 Free Trial support. Thanks for reporting Charles Teton!
- Fixed media list checkbox layout issues in Standard Jumper. Thanks for reporting Max_B!
- Fixed dialog and popover issues on older Avid versions.
- Fixed cases where speech analysis could mishandle missing or silent files. Thanks for reporting Samuel Bignell!
- Fixed some issues that could cause thumbnails or problematic media files to fail unexpectedly.

You can download and learn more on the [Jumper website](https://getjumper.io/?ref=fcpcafe).