---
label: 25th March 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 25th March 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

Happy Wednesday! 👋

Firstly... did you listen to the **Final Cut Grill** back in the day, hosted by the amazing Chris Fenwick?

I did, and I LOVED it - but I realised, it was gone from the interwebs. Well, now it's back - you can download and listen to ALL the old Episodes on [FCP Cafe](https://grill.fcp.cafe)!

I'm HOPING that Chris will release new episodes soon too! Stay tuned.

My sincerest apologies for the lack of updates to **BRAW Toolbox v2.0.0** - I hope to get a bug fix update out ASAP.

I've just submitted **Metaburner v1.2.2** to FxFactory and the Mac App Store with bug fixes and improvements. Hopefully it's out very soon!

**Keyframe Toolbox v1.0.0 (Build 30)** is now out on [TestFlight](https://discord.com/channels/1365861122720137276/1473245182387556363) and submitted to Mac App Store Review.

You can learn more on the [Keyframe Toolbox website](https://keyframetoolbox.fcp.cafe).

We hope to release ASAP - we're just waiting on Apple. Sadly, I think with the rise of "vibe coded" apps, and WWDC nearing closer, App Review is taking longer and longer these days.

**ScriptStar v1.5.0 (Build 22)** is also now available for testing on [TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/rBww3mHe).

This release includes local transcription with downloadable models! You'll find all the changes on the page where you can add `SRT`s and kick off the processing.

To create a **New Transcript** for any clip, whether it's been transcribed by Final Cut Pro already or not, just check the box for that clip in the **New Transcript** column, or click the **New Transcript** column header itself to check that box for all clips.

All transcriptions are local, private, free, and never leave your Mac.

Models include:

- **Parakeet v3** (fast, multiple European languages)
- **Whisper v3-large** (slow, but includes Asian languages like Chinese and Japanese)
- **Apple's SpeechTranscriber** model that's built in (fast, but not as accurate as the other models, and seemingly the model Final Cut Pro uses natively, with poor multi-language support).

You can choose the model to use in the **Options** panel, and the first time you transcribe, the model will download automatically, displaying a progress bar as it does so.

For the most accurate timing, don't use the built-in transcripts — just re-transcribe with Parakeet. It's fast, and the timing is more accurate than Final Cut Pro's own transcripts.

You shouldn't need to manage these models, but if you try Whisper and find it doesn't work for you, just hold `COMMAND+OPTION` as you choose that option to delete its files.

Once we get enough feedback that **ScriptStar v1.5.0** is stable and bug free, we'll release on the Mac App Store.

Feedback on all of the above is very welcome!

Thanks team!