---
label: 15th March 2026
meta:
  title: "News - 15th March 2026"
icon: broadcast
image: /static/thumbnail.jpg
---

**Jonathan Harris** has finally done it! The first working open source **MediaExtension**! 🥳

**QuickLook Video v3.05** is out now!

> This app allows macOS Finder to display thumbnails/cover art, QuickLook previews, and metadata for most types of audio and video files.
>
> QuickLook, AVFoundation and Spotlight understand a limited number of media files - mostly only MPEG audio and video codecs within MPEG container files. This app adds support for wide range of other codecs and "non-native" media file types, including:
>
> **File formats:** Matroska (`.mka`, `.mkv`), WebM (`.webm`), Windows Media (`.wma`, `.wmv`), Ogg Video (`.ogm`, `.ogv`), AVI (partial support) (`.avi`), Flash Video (`.flv`, `.f4v`), Real Media (`.ra`, `.rm`, `.rv`), SMPTE (`.gxf`, `.mxf`)
> **Audio codecs:** Vorbis, Windows Media Audio, WavPak, ATRAC, etc.
> **Video codecs:** VP6, VP8, VP9, AV1, VVC/H.266, Dolby Vision, Theora, Sorenson 1 & 3, Cinepak, Flash, Real Video, Intel Indeo, etc.
>
> The app contains a Spotlight extension that adds support for non-native file formats, and two Media Extensions that add support to AVFoundation for non-native file formats and video codecs. (Long-time Mac users may remember Perian which performed a similar function with the QuickTime framework before QuickTime was replaced by AVFoundation).

Whilst it's still a work-in-progress, and there's some performance issues, this is an awesome step in the right direction!

I've been experimenting with MediaExtension's for years now for BRAW Toolbox, but have never gotten as far as Jonathan Harris has gone.

[Anton Marini](https://github.com/vade) was the first person playing in this space, with his [FFMPEGMediaExtension](https://github.com/Fabric-Project/FFMPEGMediaExtension), but it's still not currently ready for prime time.

Anton has also been helping me with BRAW Toolbox (he's a genius.

Congratulations Jonathan Harris - hopefully this is the start of more MediaExtension's hitting the Open Source world!