docs/_includes/latenite/explore-latenites-tools.md, before:

# Explore LateNite's Tools

This website has been thrown together by [Chris Hocking](https://twitter.com/chrisatlatenite) at [LateNite](https://latenitefilms.com/technology).

Constantly looking for ways to innovate, LateNite is as passionate about production and post production as it is storytelling. Their pursuit of creative excellence has seen them work closely with global cinematic technology companies to craft post workflow solutions and critically celebrated software in-house.

Chris also helps out Hedge with **Arctic** (previously Final Cut Library Manager) - you can learn more about this [here](https://blog.hedge.video/a-new-home-for-final-cut-library-manager/).

![](/static/latenite-apps.png)

---

{{ include "latenite/pro-editor-bundle" }}

---

## Mac App Store

Here's some of our products currently for sale on the **Mac App Store**:

{{ include "latenite/braw-toolbox" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/gyroflow-toolbox" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/marker-toolbox" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/fast-collections" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/recall-toolbox" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/capacitor" }}

---

## FxFactory

Here's some of our products currently for sale on the **FxFactory**:

---

{{ include "latenite/metaburner" }}

---

## Free Apps

Here's some of our free tools used by professional editors worldwide:

{{ include "latenite/commandpost" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/transfer-toolbox" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/rename-avid-mxf-files" }}

---

## Custom Tools

If you have a specific post production workflow problem you need to solve or automate, we can help.

We’ve developed custom plugins and solutions for post production studios, production companies, and individual editors all over the world.

For example, we developed a transcription plugin for [Apollo: Missions to the Moon](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt9782756/) (edited by [David Tillman](https://twitter.com/davidtillman)) as well as specific CommandPost features for Denmark’s second largest production company, [Metronome Productions](https://web.archive.org/web/20220629061650/https://fcp.co/final-cut-pro/news/867-metronome-celebrate-a-documentary-series-cut-on-fcpx-with-a-birthday-cake).

The **FCPXML Titles Processor**, **Shot Data** and **Titles to Keywords** in CommandPost’s Toolbox are other examples of commissioned tools.

[Email us](mailto:support@latenitefilms.com) to discuss your specific requirements.

---

## In Development

Here's a **sneak peak** of some of the things we have in development:

---

### Library Duplicator

Ability to quickly create a shareable Final Cut Pro library, which also consolidates Motion Templates and Fonts.

We hope to release this in early 2024.

---

### FCP Preferences Cleaner

Inspect and clean your Final Cut Pro Preferences, rather than "trashing" them.

We hope to release this in early 2024.

---

### Timecode Toolbox

We're spinning out the **Sony Timecode Repair Toolbox** from [CommandPost](https://commandpost.io)( and making it a standalone app.

In addition to the current functionality, you'll also be able to modify the original camera files to add Final Cut Pro friendly timecode.

Here's what the Toolbox currently looks like in CommandPost:

![](/static/sony-timecode-repair.png)

We hope to release this in early 2024.

---

### RAW Toolbox

Following in the footsteps of [BRAW Toolbox](#braw-toolbox), RAW Toolbox will initially add **Nikon N-RAW** support to Final Cut Pro.

This project is currently at the exploration and experiment stage.

We hope to release this in mid-2024.

---

### Import Toolbox

**Import Toolbox** will be a Workflow Extension that allows you to import files with better metadata and preset controls (i.e. clip volume).

We will also be spinning out the **Watch Folders** from CommandPost and moving them into this app.

This project is currently at the exploration and experiment stage.

We hope to release this before the end of 2024.

---

### Assistant Toolbox

**Assistant Toolbox** will be a Workflow Extension that spins out **Titles to Keywords** and **Auto Sequence** from CommandPost.

It'll include various improvements and enhancements to make the job even easier for Assistant Editors working on long-form feature film projects.

This project is currently at the exploration and experiment stage.

Here's what the Toolbox's currently look like in CommandPost:

![](/static/titles-to-keywords.png)
![](/static/auto-sequence.png)

We hope to release this before the end of 2024.

---

### Magic Toolbox

**Magic Toolbox** is our first Machine Learning experiment.

You'll be able to add **Titles** to the timeline, to trigger Machine Learning actions such as:

- **SUBTITLES** - Analyses the audio and adds subtitles
- **NARRATION** - Turns text into speech in a narration tone
- **VOICE** - Turns text into speech based on your description
- **GRADE** - Adds Color Effects based on your description
- **MUSIC** - Adds stock music or machine learning generated music based on your description
- **SFX** - Adds sound effects from places like FreeSound.org
- **VIDEO** - Adds machine learning generated video based on your description

Magic Toolbox will use existing services like [ChatGPT](https://chat.openai.com) and [ElevenLabs](https://beta.elevenlabs.io) - and it'll be BYO API Key (subject to Apple's approval).

![](/static/magic-toolbox.jpg)

This project is currently at the exploration and experiment stage.

We hope to release this before the end of 2024.

Commit message:

7th June 2024
- Added LUT Robot
- Cleaned up LateNite Page

docs/_includes/latenite/explore-latenites-tools.md, after:

# Explore LateNite's Tools

This website has been thrown together by [Chris Hocking](https://twitter.com/chrisatlatenite) at [LateNite](https://latenitefilms.com/technology).

Constantly looking for ways to innovate, LateNite is as passionate about production and post production as it is storytelling. Their pursuit of creative excellence has seen them work closely with global cinematic technology companies to craft post workflow solutions and critically celebrated software in-house.

Chris also helps out Hedge with **Arctic** (previously Final Cut Library Manager) - you can learn more about this [here](https://blog.hedge.video/a-new-home-for-final-cut-library-manager/).

![](/static/latenite-apps.png)

---

{{ include "latenite/pro-editor-bundle" }}

---

## Mac App Store

Here's some of our products currently for sale on the **Mac App Store**:

{{ include "latenite/braw-toolbox" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/gyroflow-toolbox" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/marker-toolbox" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/fast-collections" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/recall-toolbox" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/capacitor" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/lut-robot" }}

---

## FxFactory

Here's some of our products currently for sale on the **FxFactory**:

---

{{ include "latenite/metaburner" }}

---

## Free Apps

Here's some of our free tools used by professional editors worldwide:

{{ include "latenite/commandpost" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/transfer-toolbox" }}

---

{{ include "latenite/rename-avid-mxf-files" }}

---

## Custom Tools

If you have a specific post production workflow problem you need to solve or automate, we can help.

We’ve developed custom plugins and solutions for post production studios, production companies, and individual editors all over the world.

For example, we developed a transcription plugin for [Apollo: Missions to the Moon](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt9782756/) (edited by [David Tillman](https://twitter.com/davidtillman)) as well as specific CommandPost features for Denmark’s second largest production company, [Metronome Productions](https://web.archive.org/web/20220629061650/https://fcp.co/final-cut-pro/news/867-metronome-celebrate-a-documentary-series-cut-on-fcpx-with-a-birthday-cake).

The **FCPXML Titles Processor**, **Shot Data** and **Titles to Keywords** in CommandPost’s Toolbox are other examples of commissioned tools.

[Email us](mailto:support@latenitefilms.com) to discuss your specific requirements.

---

## In Development

Here's a **sneak peak** of some of the things we have in various stages of development:

---

### Library Duplicator

Ability to quickly create a shareable Final Cut Pro library, which also consolidates Motion Templates and Fonts.

---

### FCP Preferences Cleaner

Inspect and clean your Final Cut Pro Preferences, rather than "trashing" them.

---

### Timecode Toolbox

We're spinning out the **Sony Timecode Repair Toolbox** from [CommandPost](https://commandpost.io) and making it a standalone app.

In addition to the current functionality, you'll also be able to modify the original camera files to add Final Cut Pro friendly timecode.

Here's what the Toolbox currently looks like in CommandPost:

![](/static/sony-timecode-repair.png)

---

### RAW Toolbox

Following in the footsteps of [BRAW Toolbox](#braw-toolbox), RAW Toolbox will initially add **Nikon N-RAW** support to Final Cut Pro.

---

### Import Toolbox

**Import Toolbox** will be a Workflow Extension that allows you to import files with better metadata and preset controls (i.e. clip volume).

We will also be spinning out the **Watch Folders** from CommandPost and moving them into this app.

---

### Assistant Toolbox

**Assistant Toolbox** will be a Workflow Extension that spins out **Titles to Keywords** and **Auto Sequence** from CommandPost.

It'll include various improvements and enhancements to make the job even easier for Assistant Editors working on long-form feature film projects.

This project is currently at the exploration and experiment stage.

Here's what the Toolbox's currently look like in CommandPost:

![](/static/titles-to-keywords.png)
![](/static/auto-sequence.png)

---

### Magic Toolbox

**Magic Toolbox** is our first Machine Learning experiment.

You'll be able to add **Titles** to the timeline, to trigger Machine Learning actions such as:

- **SUBTITLES** - Analyses the audio and adds subtitles
- **NARRATION** - Turns text into speech in a narration tone
- **VOICE** - Turns text into speech based on your description
- **GRADE** - Adds Color Effects based on your description
- **MUSIC** - Adds stock music or machine learning generated music based on your description
- **SFX** - Adds sound effects from places like FreeSound.org
- **VIDEO** - Adds machine learning generated video based on your description

Magic Toolbox will use existing services like [ChatGPT](https://chat.openai.com) and [ElevenLabs](https://beta.elevenlabs.io) - and it'll be BYO API Key (subject to Apple's approval).

![](/static/magic-toolbox.jpg)
