### [11th December 2024](/news/20241211)

**BRAW Toolbox v1.4.2 (72)** is out now!

It contains the following bug fixes:

- Fixed a bug where the Toolbox drop zone failed to work properly in Final Cut Pro 11 due to depreciated FCPXML versions. Thanks for reporting Alex Sofonea!
- Fixed a bug where the **Check All/Uncheck All** button in the Workflow Extension didn't work correctly. Thanks for reporting Mathew Welsh!

You can download and learn more on the [BRAW Toolbox website](https://brawtoolbox.io).

---

**Dylan Bates (The Final Cut Bro)** has released a new product called **Ultimate Glitch Transitions for Final Cut Pro | Vol. 1**

You can use the discount code `Glitch20` to get **20% off** at checkout.

Dylan writes:

> Hey fam, if you've been editing in Final Cut Pro for any length of time, there's a good chance you've run into an issue with transitions. When you apply a transition onto an overlying layer like a title or logo graphic, it almost always takes over the entire timeline, regardless of what you are applying it to.
>
> THIS DRIVES ME CRAZY.
>
> This week, I released a brand new glitch transition pack. But whenever I release a new plugin, I want it to solve problems that we have as everyday editors in Final Cut Pro.
>
> So my goal with this pack was to solve that exact problem. And I am happy to report, that it was a success!
>
> My new Glitch Transition pack allows you to enable / disable whether or not you want to apply it to the rest of the timeline.
>
> PLUS it comes with 20 variations of glitches, as well as an enormous amount of customization. So the possibilities truly are endless!

You can learn more and purchase on [Dylan's Gumroad Store](https://thefinalcutbro.gumroad.com/l/Glitches).

---

**SendToX v1.2.7** is out now!

It has the following change:

- Bug fix for falsely reporting that files are offline

You can download on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/sendtox/id496926258).