### [15th August 2024](/news/20240815)

**Mike Matzdorff** is removing his incredible book titled **Final Cut Pro X: Pro Workflow: Proven Techniques from the First Studio Film to Use FCP X** from Apple Books and Amazon.

We strongly recommend you purchase it RIGHT NOW.

Mike explains:

> There are a couple reasons for taking it down...<br />
> I think there are better resources available, which may have built on what I did (see Iain Anderson's [Final Cut Pro Efficient Editing](/learn/training/#final-cut-pro-efficient-editing-book)) - there are still some good techniques in there, but the ideas are nearly ten years old.<br />
> I think one of my hopes, at the time, was that FCP(X) would be something I could use in my main (paying) editing work, and due to the manufacturer's development choices, it wasn't something I could sell productions on.<br />
> Which is ok. It's great software, supported by a great community and Apple folks. The book is a bargain, even now.

You can purchase from Amazon [here](https://www.amazon.com/Final-Cut-Pro-Workflow-Techniques-ebook/dp/B00UO2NA8I/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_product_top?ie=UTF8) and Apple Books [here](https://books.apple.com/au/book/final-cut-pro-x-pro-workflow/id980656984) for a short time only!

Thanks Mike for EVERYTHING you've done for the Final Cut Pro community! Legend.

---

**SendToX v1.2.4** is out now with the following bug fixes:

- Critical bug fix for failing to relink files to audio-only media in some cases
- Bug fix to ignore.vob files
- Bug fix for when file/timecode has no frame element

You can download from the Mac App Store [here](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/sendtox/id496926258?mt=12).