### [27th May 2025](/news/20250527)

The amazing Joe Marler reports on our [Discord](https://ltnt.tv/discord):

> The v11.1.1 fix involving "MXF media to plays back incorrectly" (only XAVC-L) had been filed as [issue 449 in the FCP Cafe bug database](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues/449)<br />
> <br />
> There was also an unannounced fix in [Pro Video Formats v2.4.1](https://support.apple.com/en-us/106396) the day after the Final Cut Pro v11.1.1 release.<br />
> <br />
> That Pro Video Formats v2.4.1 fix addressed sluggish Quicktime XAVC-L playback on Apple Silicon.<br />
> <br />
> I tested the Final Cut Pro v11.1.1 fix on bug #449 before installing Pro Video Formats v2.4.1, and it none-the-less fixed the specific XAVC-L bug involving black frames when using the Final Cut Pro Import dialog on Apple Silicon.
> <br />
> However the QTP bug was suspicious. It might have been in `/Library/Video/Professional Video Workflow\Plug-Ins/AppleAVCLGCodec.bundle` or in `/Library/Video/Professional Video Workflow Plug-Ins/AppleMXFImport.bundle`, but I did binary diffs on those and diffs of the decompiled pseudocode and I don't see where it was.<br />
> <br />
> The Final Cut Pro v11.1.1 fix was possibly in the Flexo private framework, maybe in `MXF::FileReader`.

This is what I absolutely LOVE about the Final Cut Pro community - we have such insanely smart people just openly sharing very technical information. Awesome.

Thanks Joe for all your on-going help, support and genius in both the wider post production community, and ESPECIALLY here at FCP Cafe in the GitHub Issues!

The **Pro Video Formats v2.4.1** update was released on 23rd May 2025, so if you haven't already updated, please do via **System Settings** or downloading manually on the [Apple website](https://support.apple.com/en-us/106396).