### [15th November 2025](/news/20251115)

Apologies for the lack of updates on FCP Cafe recently!

This year as been super challenging, both on a personal front (i.e. a tree fell on our house back in July), and the professional front (i.e. the ever-evolving film and television landscape globally) - so it's been a challenge to devote time to unpaid things like FCP Cafe and CommandPost.

However, as the year rapidly races towards Christmas, I hope to have some time in December to finally spend some time on CommandPost to get it working well on macOS 26 - again, apologies for the delay on this.

Currently we're keeping all our production machines on macOS Sequoia - which is one of the reasons why getting CommandPost running on macOS 26 hasn't been a huge priority.

For those that are interested, it looks like Apple is currently hiring lots of people for it's Creativity Apps and ProApps teams:

- [Pro Apps Acquisition Business Lead](https://jobs.apple.com/en-us/details/200627525-0836/pro-apps-acquisition-business-lead?team=MKTG)
- [Sr. Software Engineer-Video Apps](https://jobs.apple.com/en-us/details/200627013-0240/sr-software-engineer-video-apps)
- [Software Engineering Manager, Shared UI / UX - Creativity Apps](https://jobs.apple.com/en-us/details/200625892/software-engineering-manager-shared-ui-ux-creativity-apps)
- [Senior UI Software Engineer, Creativity Apps](https://jobs.apple.com/en-ca/details/200626006-3350/senior-ui-software-engineer-creativity-apps?team=SFTWR)
- [Software Engineer, Creativity Apps](https://jobs.apple.com/en-us/details/200625247-3350/software-engineer-creativity-apps?team=SFTWR)
- [Senior Software Engineer, Creativity Apps](https://jobs.apple.com/en-us/details/200626008-0836/senior-software-engineer-creativity-apps?team=SFTWR)
- [Software Engineering Manager, Creativity Apps & Frameworks](https://jobs.apple.com/en-us/details/200614972-0836/software-engineering-manager-creativity-apps-frameworks?team=SFTWR)
- [Senior Software Engineer, Creativity Apps & Frameworks](https://jobs.apple.com/en-us/details/200627052-1242/senior-software-engineer-creativity-apps-frameworks)
- [Software Engineer - LLM Workflows - Apps](https://jobs.apple.com/en-us/details/200627357/software-engineer-llm-workflows-apps?team=MLAI)
- [Sr iOS Engineer, Photography Editing & Creativity Tools](https://jobs.apple.com/en-us/details/200625102/sr-ios-engineer-photography-editing-creativity-tools)

Some interesting tidbits from these job ads include:

- The scope of this role is broad and the opportunity to drive customer impact is high. In this role, you will chart the strategic direction of our Pro Apps (including but not limited to Final Cut Pro and Logic Pro) across all Growth & Acquisition initiatives. As the Pro Apps Acquisition Business Lead, you will be responsible for driving the growth of the Pro Apps subscriber base through initiatives that achieve meaningful business results. The ideal candidate is able to set a clear vision for a multi-year growth plan, is adept at simplifying the complex, and influencing across a highly matrix organization. The role requires an experienced leader who will partner directly with product, engineering, marketing, design and finance working cross-functionally to deliver results.
- As a Senior Software Engineer, you’ll help drive the modernization of persistence systems that must handle multi-gigabyte projects with real-time responsiveness. You will be a technical contributor within the team while collaborating across Apple’s creative applications ecosystem.
- The Creativity Apps team is seeking a highly skilled Software Engineer with hands-on experience with media management, collaboration, persistence, or syncing. As a Software Engineer, you will play a key role in designing, implementing, and maintaining robust cloud syncing, media management, efficient on-device storage, and collaboration solutions to enhance our products and services.
- The Creativity Apps team is looking for a senior engineer with expertise in Apple platforms to help architect and build media management and collaboration features for creative tools. You’ll be working with the world-class teams behind Final Cut Pro, Logic Pro, and iWork to create next-generation tools for creators.
- Develop and enhance the data model, persistence infrastructure and shared frameworks used across Final Cut Pro applications.
- Contribute to the migration of legacy Objective-C systems to modern Swift applying best practices for maintainability and testability.
- Develop new capabilities using Swift structured concurrency and Grand Central Dispatch, ensuring thread safety and optimal performance.
- Collaborate closely with product and platform teams to deliver foundational improvements that enable seamless workflows across applications.
- Identify and resolve complex bottlenecks in multi-threaded, latency-sensitive environments processing large media files.

It certainly seems like behind the scenes, a lot is happening at Apple in the ProApps departments.

It looks like a big effort is being placed on updating a lot of Final Cut Pro's legacy Objective-C code to modern Swift is happening - although it's a massive long-term project.

A few weeks ago MacRumors [reported](https://www.macrumors.com/2025/10/27/apple-may-release-pixelmator-pro-for-ipad/):

> Apple might be preparing iPad apps for Pixelmator Pro, Compressor, Motion, and MainStage, according to new App Store IDs uncovered by MacRumors contributor Aaron Perris. All four of the apps are currently available on the Mac only.

Given that Apple is looking for a "Pro Apps Acquisition Business Lead" with "Proven expertise in leading growth and customer acquisition efforts for subscription services", it's certainly a possibility we might see more ProApps move to the subscription model in the future.

I think in the short term, there's a high possibility we might see **Final Cut Pro 11.2.1** sometime in the next few months with bug fixes.

One major bug that's been in Final Cut Pro for a while, but is a major pain, is if you have UltraHD (3840x2160) footage in a HD (1920x1080) timeline, it doesn't actually fill the entire frame - there's a 1 pixel boundary at the edges.

If you have your Viewer background set to Black then this is very hard to notice - you really only notice it if your Viewer background is transparent, or if you have something colourful underneath the UltraHD footage.

Whilst this is annoying for every Final Cut Pro user working with UltraHD footage in a HD timeline - this is a major pain for anyone working in broadcast, as it will fail QC.

I know that Apple is aware of this bug - so I'm HOPEFUL that we'll see a fix sooner rather than later.

There's a lot of other bugs on the [FCP Cafe Bug Tracker](/bugtracker/) - but I feel like this one is really a priority.

Longer term, at next years Final Cut Pro Creative Summit in Spring 2026, I think we'll see a much bigger update.

Although I have no inside knowledge, and I'm not on any top-secret betas or seeds, my GUESS as to what we'll see is:

- Motion & Compressor will come to iPad
- User generated Motion templates will finally work across iPad and Mac
- Better collaboration between Final Cut Pro on Mac and Final Cut Pro on iPad (bye-bye [Transfer Toolbox](https://transfertoolbox.fcp.cafe)).
- Blackmagic will finally release their BRAW MediaExtension they announced at last years FCP Creative Summit (bye-bye [BRAW Toolbox](https://brawtoolbox.fcp.cafe)).

Then, once macOS 27 is out (dropping Intel support), we might finally see some big major machine learning improvements added to Final Cut Pro - i.e. machine learning image and audio search (to compete with [Jumper](https://getjumper.io).

It's certainly going to be an interesting few years!

---

**Compressor v4.11.1** is out now with a security fix:

- Addresses a security vulnerability involving external connections to Compressor's open TCP/IP ports.

Given Apple very rarely release security only updates for their ProApp's, this is probably a good one to update quickly incase this is being exploited in the wild.

This addresses [CVE-2025-43515](https://support.apple.com/en-ca/125693):

> Available for: macOS Sequoia 15.6 and later
> **Impact:** An unauthenticated user on the same network as a Compressor server may be able to execute arbitrary code
> **Description:** The issue was addressed by refusing external connections by default.
> **CVE-2025-43515:** CodeColorist and Pedro Tôrres(@t0rr3sp3dr0)

You can download on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/compressor/id424390742).

---

**BRAW Toolbox v1.4.7** is out now with the following improvements:

- Added support for Blackmagic PYXIS 12K.
- Added support for Leica SL3-S, Sony FX3 and Sony FX30 Blackmagic RAW clips.
- Updated from Blackmagic RAW SDK v4.6.1 to v5.1.

You can download and learn more on the [BRAW Toolbox website](https://brawtoolbox.fcp.cafe).

---

**Transfer Toolbox v1.4.1** is out now with the following improvements:

- Added support for Final Cut Pro 11.2 (for Mac) and Final Cut Pro 2.3 (for iPad).

You can download and learn more on the [Transfer Toolbox website](https://transfertoolbox.fcp.cafe).

---

**captionTranslator v1.0.2** is out now with the following improvements:

- **New feature:** Support updating an `.fcpxmld` bundle's `Info.fcpxml` file (to preserve effects applied to clips in the project)
- **Bug fix:** Improved detection of installed languages

You can download and learn more on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/captiontranslator/id6737919696).

---

**SpeedScriber v3.0.1** is out now with the following new features and bug fixes:

- Usage is now rounded up to the next second rather than the next minute.
- Speaker ranges can be deleted by clicking the X button in the top right of the range.
- Speakers can be merged together by clicking the speaker menus in the transcript.
- Can now choose to only export Favorite ranges to FCP (in Settings).
- Profanity filter per imported file plus default option in Settings.
- Caption layout algorithm has been rewritten for better readability.
- Can now choose up to 1 or 2 lines per caption page.
- Can now choose 20/32/36/42 maximum characters per caption line.
- Dragging FCP libraries to the Dock now works again.
- Improved reliability of transcript editing.
- Fixed bugs with transcript scrolling to wrong location.
- Fixed bug with blank lines that could occur in PDF exports.
- Editing of words in Favorite ranges now works as expected.

You can download and learn more on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/speedscriber/id1101502006)

---

**Producer's Best Friend v1.4.74** is out now with the following improvements:

- Support for reporting keyword collection folders
- Bug fix for for creating thumbnails from clips in certain cases

You can download and learn more on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/producers-best-friend/id688519794)

---

**Sync-N-Link v1.3.8** is out now with the following improvements:

- Bug fixes for creating synced clips when "Make wrapped Video clips at a different frame size" is turned on

You can download and learn more on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/sync-n-link-x/id517599985)

---

**Backups for Final Cut Pro v2.1.5** is out now with the following improvements:

- New Tahoe compatible App icon. Updated help.
- Verified to run under MacOS Tahoe and work with Final Cut Pro v11.2.

You can download and learn more on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/backups-for-final-cut-pro/id586594646)