### [10th May 2025](/news/20250510)

**Jumper for Final Cut Pro** will be on display at **MPTS show** at Olympia Grand Hall in **London** next week thanks to OWC! 🥳

The amazing **Ronny Courtens** from OWC (Head of Enterprise solutions - Jellyfish/Jupiter/LTO) and **Max Lund** from Witchcraft Software (the lead developer of Jumper) will be on the stand demoing Jumper, running large shared media volumes and on-premises machine learning datasets off a Jellyfish NAS.

Ronny will give live demos of their latest high-performance Jellyfish NAS systems, their powerful new Jellyfish Manager v3.0, and the very first release of their brand-new Jellyfish Media Management software.

The Jellyfish systems will be connected to super-fast OWC Thunderbolt 5 hubs, docks, and drives, to demo high-speed edit-while-ingest collaboration workflows.

If you want to see the fastest and most user-friendly storage solutions for creative teams, and the latest developments in on-premises machine learning, come and visit MPTS on the ccktech booth, **Stand B42**.

The event runs:

**Wednesday 14th May - 09:30 - 18:30**
**Thursday 15th May - 09:30 - 17:00**

---

**Caption Pop AI v1.1.5** is out now!

It now includes background text boxes, improved color pickers, new languages, and a DTD bug fix.

The auto-update’s broken, so to install:

- Quit FCP & SR app
- Delete the SR app
- Download and install new version
- Restart FCP and then relaunch Caption Pop AI

After updating, both the SR app and Caption Pop AI should have 1.1.5 version numbers.

You can learn more on the [Stupid Raisins website](https://stupidraisins.com).

---

**evrExpanse v5.6.2** is out now!

It contains the following changes:

- **NEW:** Canon XF Utility Integration
- Added integration with the Canon XF Utility application to enhance metadata workflows for Canon XF-AVC MXF media.
- Applicable to Canon EOS Cinema cameras prior to the C80 and C400 series, including: C300 / C500 / C200 / C700 / C70 / R5 C and others.
- Note: Canon C80 and C400 (2024) embed metadata directly in the MXF files. evrExpanse natively supports those without this integration.

- **ENHANCED:** Canon EOS Cinema Metadata Support
- Added support (via Canon XF Utility Integration) for extracting: ISO, FNumber, Shutter Speed, White Balance, and Focal Point (mm).
- Added direct support for extracting Camera Index, Reel Number, and Clip Number from Canon EOS Cinema MXF files improving shot-level identification and asset management.

- **ENHANCED:** Main Window Behavior Update
- The **Cancel** button in the main window has been relabeled as **Quit**.
- When clicked, the application now exits immediately instead of returning to the startup screen.
- On the next application launch, the startup screen now opens at its default size, rather than restoring the window size from the previous session.

- **FIXED:** Color Space Extraction for Canon C200 (XF-AVC)
- Resolved an issue where the Color Space could not be correctly extracted from XF-AVC MXF files recorded with the Canon C200 camera.

You can download and learn more on the [evrExpanse website](https://www.evrapp.cloud/evrexpanse).

---

**EDL-X v2.14** is out now!

In includes the following improvement:

- New Choice for Clip Names: Top-Level Clip Names - Forced - grabs the first name found while drilling down in the timeline

You can download on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/edl-x/id539666579).