### [28th January 2026](/news/20260128)

**Jumper v2026.01.27 (Build 2816)** for Mac is out now! ðŸ¥³

This is a **BIG** update with lots of improvements, new features, bug fixes and addressing things that have been requested by all the amazing people in the Jumper Discord.

Thanks so much for your continued love, help and support - HUGELY appreciated!

People are finally starting to take notice of Jumper in bigger facilities and post houses (especially in the Avid NEXIS world) - and this wouldn't have been possible without your amazing help, support and patience.

Max & Anton (from Witchcraft in Sweden) have **LOTS** of exciting things planned for the next update of Jumper, including wider RAW codecs support (let us know what camera's you're using!), better Speech Panel, and lots more exciting things. Max is a giant ML nerd - so he's really excited to eventually bring local LLM's to Jumper in some way, shape or form.

Please continue to share Jumper with your friends and co-workers! We have an [affiliate program](https://docs.getjumper.io/affiliate/affiliate) too if you want to join.

Happy jumping! Let us know if you spot any bugs or issues. Remember, we have ALL the previous versions of Jumper on the [download website](https://getjumper.io/download) if you ever need to roll back.

You can learn the origin story of how I got involved with Jumper on this FCP Cafe news entry from [6th November 2024](/news/20241106/).

This update includes the following changes:

**ðŸ¥³ New Features**
- Added support for **Watch Folders**. Watch Folders allow you to specify directories that Jumper will monitor. When new, un-analyzed media files are added to these folders, Jumper will automatically start analyzing them. This is especially useful for workflows where media is regularly imported or transferred to specific locations.
- Added **License Server** support, for an air-gapped/offline environment. Jumper Pro can now act as a license server for other Jumper users on the same network. These other clients don't have to be connected to the Internet (only the machine acting as the license server does, so we can activate the licenses). Please contact support via email or Discord to get free support adding this feature to your facility.
- Added support for Blackmagic RAW.

**ðŸ”¨ Improvements**
- Various user interface improvements.
- Added persistent naming when re-clustering faces.
- Added a new progress panel when you add files from Avid Media Composer into Jumper's Media Panel.
- Improved performance of handling **Group Clips** in Avid Media Composer.
- When using **All Bins** in Avid Media Composer, Jumper now closes any bins that it opens. Thanks for reporting Doug Abel!
- Updated the macOS Uninstaller icon to be macOS 26 Tahoe friendly. Yes, we hate macOS 26 Tahoe too.

**ðŸž Bug Fixes**
- We now hide Face Detection for audio-only files in the Media Panel.

You can download and learn more about Jumper on the [Jumper website](https://getjumper.io/?ref=fcpcafe).

---

**Marker to Reminder v1.2** is out now!

It includes the following changes:

- Adds a new option: Create a new Reminders list using the FCP project name, useful if you want to create a new Reminders list for every project you work on.
- Updates the icon in the Workflow Extension menu to be greyscale.

You can learn more and download on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/marker-to-reminder/id6757208568).

---

**XtoCC v1.2.47** is out now!

It includes the following changes:

- Bug fix for the `Help > Visit Website` menu item
- Bug fix for detecting disabled audio clips in a project
- Bug fix for XML version numbers

You can learn more and download on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/xtocc/id487899517).