docs/bugtracker.md, before:

# Bug Tracker

This page is dedicated to keeping track of the latest Final Cut Pro bugs and issues.

We keep track of these bugs via our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

To submit a new bug report, simply sign up for a free GitHub account and post an issue [here](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

In general, whenever posting a new bug/issue to GitHub, we also submit feedback directly to Apple via [Feedback Assistant](https://feedbackassistant.apple.com){target="_blank"}.

---

### Final Cut Pro 10.6.6

Here's a list of the main issues we've discovered in the latest Final Cut Pro Release:

- [FCPXML v1.11 doesn't support Soundtracks (May 28, 2023)](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues/94)
- [Audio Presets don't migrate from earlier versions to v10.6.6 (May 27, 2023)](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues/92)

The above list is manually curated.

---

### Most Popular

Here's a list of the **30 most popular** Final Cut Pro bug reports:

{{ include "bugtracker-reactions.md" }}

The above list is pulled from our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

---

### Recently Added

Here's a list of the **30 most recently added** Final Cut Pro bug reports:

{{ include "bugtracker-recent.md" }}

The above list is pulled from our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

---

!!!
Want to contribute? [Learn more here!](https://fcp.cafe/contribute/){target="_blank"}
!!!

Commit message:

Added Review & Updated Bug Tracker

docs/bugtracker.md, after:

# Bug Tracker

This page is dedicated to keeping track of the latest Final Cut Pro bugs and issues.

We keep track of these bugs via our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

To submit a new bug report, simply sign up for a free GitHub account and post an issue [here](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

In general, whenever posting a new bug/issue to GitHub, we also submit feedback directly to Apple via [Feedback Assistant](https://feedbackassistant.apple.com){target="_blank"}.

---

### Final Cut Pro 10.6.6

Here's a list of the **30 most recently added** Final Cut Pro 10.6.6 bug reports:

{{ include "bugtracker-latest.md" }}

The above list is pulled from our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

---

### Most Popular

Here's a list of the **30 most popular** Final Cut Pro bug reports:

{{ include "bugtracker-reactions.md" }}

The above list is pulled from our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

---

### Recently Added

Here's a list of the **30 most recently added** Final Cut Pro bug reports:

{{ include "bugtracker-recent.md" }}

The above list is pulled from our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

---

!!!
Want to contribute? [Learn more here!](https://fcp.cafe/contribute/){target="_blank"}
!!!
