docs/ipad.md, before:

# iPad

This section is dedicated to Final Cut Pro for iPad.

---

### User Manual

You can find the Final Cut Pro for iPad manual [here](https://support.apple.com/en-au/guide/final-cut-pro-ipad/welcome/ipados){target="_blank"}.

---

### Richard Taylor - FCPX.TV

Richard Taylor has an EPIC list of all the latest iPad videos and articles on [FCPX.TV](https://fcpx.tv/){target="_blank"}.

[!button text="Visit Website" target="blank" variant="info"](https://fcpx.tv/pages1/fcipad.html)

---

### Transfer Toolbox

Transfer Toolbox allows you to convert Final Cut Pro (for Mac) libraries into Final Cut Pro (for iPad) projects!

You can now easily get from your Desktop to your iPad! Simply drag your existing Final Cut Pro library into the application's drop zone.

You should ensure your library only has a single event, and all project timecode starts at 00:00:00:00.

All Motion Content and Media should be contained within the Library.

If you have custom fonts on the Mac Final Cut Pro library, you should manually install them on the iPad before importing the project.

Transfer Toolbox requires Final Cut Pro 10.6.6 or later.

[!button text="Visit Website" target="blank" variant="info"](https://transfertoolbox.io)

---

!!!
Want to contribute? [Learn more here!](https://fcp.cafe/contribute/){target="_blank"}
!!!

---

{{ include "giscus.md" }}

Commit message:

Added Apple Support link to iPad page

docs/ipad.md, after:

# iPad

This section is dedicated to Final Cut Pro for iPad.

---

### User Manual

You can find the Final Cut Pro for iPad manual [here](https://support.apple.com/en-au/guide/final-cut-pro-ipad/welcome/ipados){target="_blank"}.

---

### Apple Support

You can find the official Apple Support site [here](https://support.apple.com/final-cut-pro){target="_blank"}.

---

### Richard Taylor - FCPX.TV

Richard Taylor has an EPIC list of all the latest iPad videos and articles on [FCPX.TV](https://fcpx.tv/){target="_blank"}.

[!button text="Visit Website" target="blank" variant="info"](https://fcpx.tv/pages1/fcipad.html)

---

### Transfer Toolbox

Transfer Toolbox allows you to convert Final Cut Pro (for Mac) libraries into Final Cut Pro (for iPad) projects!

You can now easily get from your Desktop to your iPad! Simply drag your existing Final Cut Pro library into the application's drop zone.

You should ensure your library only has a single event, and all project timecode starts at 00:00:00:00.

All Motion Content and Media should be contained within the Library.

If you have custom fonts on the Mac Final Cut Pro library, you should manually install them on the iPad before importing the project.

Transfer Toolbox requires Final Cut Pro 10.6.6 or later.

[!button text="Visit Website" target="blank" variant="info"](https://transfertoolbox.io)

---

!!!
Want to contribute? [Learn more here!](https://fcp.cafe/contribute/){target="_blank"}
!!!

---

{{ include "giscus.md" }}
