docs/privacy.md, before:

# Privacy Policy

FCP Cafe does not use cookies on its website.

We do not collect any personal identifiable information from you when you visit our Website.

We don't embed any videos - we only show a thumbnail which links to the video - to prevent third party cookies/trackers.

We use [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com){target="_blank"} to host and manage this website.

We use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"} to manage our [Bug Tracker](/bugtracker/) & [Wish List](/wishlist/).

We use [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/discussions){target="_blank"} to manage the comments and discussions on the site.

The comments feature at the bottom of every page is powered by [giscus](https://giscus.vercel.app){target="_blank"}, which also has no tracking or database.

You can read GitHub's Privacy Statement [here](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement){target="_blank"}.

The source code and change log for this website can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe){target="_blank"}.

Any code (such as GitHub Actions) are licensed under a [MIT License](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/blob/main/LICENSE){target="_blank"}.

---

### Security

The security of your Personal Information is important to us, but remember that no method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100% secure. While we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your Personal Information, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.

---

### Links to other sites

FCP Cafe contains links to other sites that are not operated by us. If you click on a third party link, you will be directed to that third party's site. We strongly advise you to review the Privacy Policy of every site you visit.

We have no control over, and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third-party sites or services.

---

### Changes to This Privacy Policy

We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. Thus, you are advised to review this page periodically for any changes. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page. These changes are effective immediately after they are posted on this page.

You can check the change history of this privacy policy [here](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/commits/main/docs/privacy.md){target="_blank"}.

---

### Questions?

Please contact us with any questions: [support@latenitefilms.com](mailto:support@latenitefilms.com?subject=FCPCafe)

Commit message:

Added CloudFlare to Privacy Policy

docs/privacy.md, after:

# Privacy Policy

**Last Updated:** Tuesday 13th June 2023

FCP Cafe does not use cookies on its website.

We do not collect any personal identifiable information from you when you visit our Website.

We don't embed any videos - we only show a thumbnail which links to the video - to prevent third party cookies/trackers.

We use [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com){target="_blank"} to host and manage this website.

We use [CloudFlare](https://www.cloudflare.com){target="_blank"} for DNS hosting, and [VentraIP](https://ventraip.com.au) for domain hosting.

You can read CloudFlare's privacy policy [here](https://www.cloudflare.com/en-au/privacypolicy/){target="_blank"}.

We use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"} to manage our [Bug Tracker](/bugtracker/) & [Wish List](/wishlist/).

We use [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/discussions){target="_blank"} to manage the comments and discussions on the site.

The comments feature at the bottom of every page is powered by [giscus](https://giscus.vercel.app){target="_blank"}, which also has no tracking or database.

You can read GitHub's Privacy Statement [here](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement){target="_blank"}.

The source code and change log for this website can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe){target="_blank"}.

Any code (such as GitHub Actions) are licensed under a [MIT License](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/blob/main/LICENSE){target="_blank"}.

---

### Security

The security of your Personal Information is important to us, but remember that no method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100% secure. While we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your Personal Information, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.

---

### Links to other sites

FCP Cafe contains links to other sites that are not operated by us. If you click on a third party link, you will be directed to that third party's site. We strongly advise you to review the Privacy Policy of every site you visit.

We have no control over, and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third-party sites or services.

---

### Changes to This Privacy Policy

We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. Thus, you are advised to review this page periodically for any changes. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page. These changes are effective immediately after they are posted on this page.

You can check the change history of this privacy policy [here](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/commits/main/docs/privacy.md){target="_blank"}.

---

### Questions?

Please contact us with any questions: [support@latenitefilms.com](mailto:support@latenitefilms.com?subject=FCPCafe)
