docs/tools.md, before:

# Tools

This page is dedicated to handy applications that can be used in conjunction with Final Cut Pro.

---

### Transfer Toolbox

[!ref Visit Website](https://transfertoolbox.io)

Transfer Toolbox allows you to convert Final Cut Pro (for Mac) libraries into Final Cut Pro (for iPad) projects!

You can now easily get from your Desktop to your iPad! Simply drag your existing Final Cut Pro library into the application's drop zone.

You should ensure your library only has a single event, and all project timecode starts at 00:00:00:00.

All Motion Content and Media should be contained within the Library.

If you have custom fonts on the Mac Final Cut Pro library, you should manually install them on the iPad before importing the project.

Transfer Toolbox requires Final Cut Pro 10.6.6 or later.

---

### CommandPost

[!ref Visit Website](https://commandpost.io)

CommandPost is a **free** and [open source](https://github.com/CommandPost/CommandPost/blob/develop/LICENSE.md) macOS application that bridges between control surfaces and software that doesn’t support them natively, such as Apple’s [Final Cut Pro](https://www.apple.com/final-cut-pro/) and Adobe’s [After Effects](https://www.adobe.com/products/aftereffects.html).

It’s been downloaded over [163 thousand times](https://hanadigital.github.io/grev/?user=commandpost&repo=commandpost), and there are over [2.6 thousands members](https://www.facebook.com/groups/commandpost/members) in our [Facebook Community](https://www.facebook.com/groups/commandpost/).

It’s been translated into Arabic, Bengali, Catalan, Chinese (Simplified & Traditional), Danish, Dutch, French, German, Greek, Hindi, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Malayalam, Norwegian, Panjabi/Punjabi, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, Ukrainian & Vietnamese by [our awesome community](https://poeditor.com/join/project/QWvOQlF1Sy).

It’s used by filmmakers, developers, scientists and macOS power users all over the world to seriously speed up mundane tasks through powerful and customisable automation tools.

For example, you can apply individual effects within Final Cut Pro or After Effects with the single tap of a button.

Powered by [Lua](https://dev.commandpost.io/lua/overview/) (the same scripting language used by [Blackmagic Fusion](https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/products/fusion/), [Adobe Lightroom](https://www.adobe.com/au/products/photoshop-lightroom.html) and even parts of [Apple iOS](https://twitter.com/_inside/status/1026173832527265792)), it's insanely customisable and powerful.

It runs natively on Apple Silicon and is fully compatible with [Hammerspoon](http://www.hammerspoon.org).

You can listen to Chris explain CommandPost on Final Cut Pro Radio [Episode #57](http://fcpradio.com/episode057.html) and [Episode #43](http://fcpradio.com/episodes/episode043.html).

---

### X2Pro

[!ref View on Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/ph/app/x2pro-audio-convert/id501688639?mt=12)

Move your Final Cut Pro X projects to the audio suite simply and quickly. X2Pro Audio Convert takes your FCP X XML and creates an AAF with embedded or referenced audio media which Avid Pro Tools can open as a session, delivering seamless integration between the two applications..

X2Pro Audio Convert is a cutting edge conversion application for delivering FCP X projects for audio finishing, it is easy to use directly from within FCP X.

Taking advantage of the innovative Roles features in FCP X, X2Pro allows you to choose how these are converted to tracks; their order, packing and whether they are included, allowing sound designers to start working immediately.

Media can be embedded in the AAF (and trimmed with handles to minimise file size) to create a single, simple to transfer, file. Alternatively the AAF can reference external media which is ideal when FCP X and ProTools have access to the same shared storage.

Those who do not need the advanced functions of referenced, trimmed media, or close control of the conversion of Roles, can look at the cost effective X2ProLE.

X2Pro faithfully translates your audio timeline along with L-cuts, J-cuts, transitions, levels, automatic gain and fade handles, as well as the incredibly powerful FCP X compound clips. Transitions are converted into linear cross fades. Audio media can be any QuickTime supported audio, non-PCM audio is converted to PCM at either 16 or 24 bit.

R3D media is supported.

Multicam Clips are effectively translated taking across the audio of the selected angle.

X2Pro gives a clear warning when it comes across elements of a sequence which it cannot translate such as time maps and effects.

We recommend rendering an off-line or proxy version of the flattened video and exporting that if a reference is needed within Pro Tools. Only audio media is translated by X2Pro.

Requirements

• FCP X, 10.0.4 or later and XML from 1.1
• X2Pro is tested on the latest release OS and the previous release
• Pro Tools v7.0 or later for AAF import (not LE versions, v7 and v8 require Digitranslator for AAF import)

X2Pro uses Marquis Media Highway technology to integrate FCP X into the established professional audio workflow. Marquis Media Highway is the core technology employed by Marquis’ media integration products – it improves how broadcast production systems interoperate by delivering a seamless and cost-effective integration between leading broadcast content applications. Marquis Broadcast specializes in content workflows and media integration software and has been delivering solutions to broadcast since 1998.

---

{{ include "giscus.md" }}

Commit message:

Added Final Cut Library Manager

docs/tools.md, after:

# Tools

This page is dedicated to handy applications that can be used in conjunction with Final Cut Pro.

---

### Transfer Toolbox

[!button text="Visit Website"](https://transfertoolbox.io)

Transfer Toolbox allows you to convert Final Cut Pro (for Mac) libraries into Final Cut Pro (for iPad) projects!

You can now easily get from your Desktop to your iPad! Simply drag your existing Final Cut Pro library into the application's drop zone.

You should ensure your library only has a single event, and all project timecode starts at 00:00:00:00.

All Motion Content and Media should be contained within the Library.

If you have custom fonts on the Mac Final Cut Pro library, you should manually install them on the iPad before importing the project.

Transfer Toolbox requires Final Cut Pro 10.6.6 or later.

---

### CommandPost

[!button text="Visit Website"](https://commandpost.io)

CommandPost is a **free** and [open source](https://github.com/CommandPost/CommandPost/blob/develop/LICENSE.md) macOS application that bridges between control surfaces and software that doesn’t support them natively, such as Apple’s [Final Cut Pro](https://www.apple.com/final-cut-pro/) and Adobe’s [After Effects](https://www.adobe.com/products/aftereffects.html).

It’s been downloaded over [163 thousand times](https://hanadigital.github.io/grev/?user=commandpost&repo=commandpost), and there are over [2.6 thousands members](https://www.facebook.com/groups/commandpost/members) in our [Facebook Community](https://www.facebook.com/groups/commandpost/).

It’s been translated into Arabic, Bengali, Catalan, Chinese (Simplified & Traditional), Danish, Dutch, French, German, Greek, Hindi, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Malayalam, Norwegian, Panjabi/Punjabi, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, Ukrainian & Vietnamese by [our awesome community](https://poeditor.com/join/project/QWvOQlF1Sy).

It’s used by filmmakers, developers, scientists and macOS power users all over the world to seriously speed up mundane tasks through powerful and customisable automation tools.

For example, you can apply individual effects within Final Cut Pro or After Effects with the single tap of a button.

Powered by [Lua](https://dev.commandpost.io/lua/overview/) (the same scripting language used by [Blackmagic Fusion](https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/products/fusion/), [Adobe Lightroom](https://www.adobe.com/au/products/photoshop-lightroom.html) and even parts of [Apple iOS](https://twitter.com/_inside/status/1026173832527265792)), it's insanely customisable and powerful.

It runs natively on Apple Silicon and is fully compatible with [Hammerspoon](http://www.hammerspoon.org).

You can listen to Chris explain CommandPost on Final Cut Pro Radio [Episode #57](http://fcpradio.com/episode057.html) and [Episode #43](http://fcpradio.com/episodes/episode043.html).

---

### Final Cut Library Manager

[!button text="Visit Website"](https://www.arcticwhiteness.com/finalcutlibrarymanager/)

Final Cut Library Manager instantly displays all of the Final Cut Pro X libraries that it finds on your Spotlight-indexed drives. When a Library references external media Final Cut Library Manager will automatically create a group to clearly present the distribution of these media files across your system. You can also add other sources : including external disks, or folders, including those not indexed by spotlight.

![Final Cut Library Manager](../static/fclm.png)

---

### X2Pro

[!button text="View on Mac App Store"](https://apps.apple.com/ph/app/x2pro-audio-convert/id501688639?mt=12)

Move your Final Cut Pro X projects to the audio suite simply and quickly. X2Pro Audio Convert takes your FCP X XML and creates an AAF with embedded or referenced audio media which Avid Pro Tools can open as a session, delivering seamless integration between the two applications..

X2Pro Audio Convert is a cutting edge conversion application for delivering FCP X projects for audio finishing, it is easy to use directly from within FCP X.

Taking advantage of the innovative Roles features in FCP X, X2Pro allows you to choose how these are converted to tracks; their order, packing and whether they are included, allowing sound designers to start working immediately.

Media can be embedded in the AAF (and trimmed with handles to minimise file size) to create a single, simple to transfer, file. Alternatively the AAF can reference external media which is ideal when FCP X and ProTools have access to the same shared storage.

Those who do not need the advanced functions of referenced, trimmed media, or close control of the conversion of Roles, can look at the cost effective X2ProLE.

X2Pro faithfully translates your audio timeline along with L-cuts, J-cuts, transitions, levels, automatic gain and fade handles, as well as the incredibly powerful FCP X compound clips. Transitions are converted into linear cross fades. Audio media can be any QuickTime supported audio, non-PCM audio is converted to PCM at either 16 or 24 bit.

R3D media is supported.

Multicam Clips are effectively translated taking across the audio of the selected angle.

X2Pro gives a clear warning when it comes across elements of a sequence which it cannot translate such as time maps and effects.

We recommend rendering an off-line or proxy version of the flattened video and exporting that if a reference is needed within Pro Tools. Only audio media is translated by X2Pro.

Requirements

• FCP X, 10.0.4 or later and XML from 1.1
• X2Pro is tested on the latest release OS and the previous release
• Pro Tools v7.0 or later for AAF import (not LE versions, v7 and v8 require Digitranslator for AAF import)

X2Pro uses Marquis Media Highway technology to integrate FCP X into the established professional audio workflow. Marquis Media Highway is the core technology employed by Marquis’ media integration products – it improves how broadcast production systems interoperate by delivering a seamless and cost-effective integration between leading broadcast content applications. Marquis Broadcast specializes in content workflows and media integration software and has been delivering solutions to broadcast since 1998.

---

{{ include "giscus.md" }}
