docs/training.md, before:

<!--
Core Training for FCP 10.4 (Mac App)
Final Cut Pro Efficient Editing (Book)
Final Cut Pro Power Tips (Book)
Final Cut Pro: Pro Workflow (Book)
Getting Started for FCP 10.4 (Mac App)
iJustine Teaches FCP X (Mac App)
-->
# Training

We're big fans of [Ripple Training](https://www.rippletraining.com){target="_blank"}.

Apple has a lot of training resources [here](https://www.apple.com/au/final-cut-pro/resources/){target="_blank"}.

---

!!!
Want to contribute or add your training? [Learn more here!](https://fcp.cafe/contribute/){target="_blank"}
!!!

---

### Core Training for FCP 10.4 (Mac App)

Core Training for Final Cut Pro 10.4 teaches you how to edit movies using Apple’s flagship professional video editing application.

With Core Training for Final Cut Pro 10.4, you'll learn how to:

- Navigate the interface
- Use Libraries and Events to organize your work
- Import media from cameras and drives
- Browse, rate, and add keywords to clips
- Edit clips into a project
- Reorder, replace, remove, and trim clips in project
- Work with photographs, sound effects, and music
- Color correct video
- Enhance and improve the soundtrack
- Edit and enhance 360° Videos
- Share your movies and much more!

Learn at your own pace

- 39 lessons covering a wide spectrum of workflows
- Chapter markers are included for jumping to specific topics
- Lessons are short - about 10 minutes each
- Watch them continuously or just a few at a time

Have fun learning

- Lessons are delivered in a relaxed style by a professional editor
- Follow along as you creates a fun, engaging movie from scratch
- Easily switch between the App and Final Cut Pro X to practice what you learn

Core Training for Final Cut Pro 10.4 will help you to:

- Focus on telling your story rather than figuring out software
- Learn concepts you can immediately apply to your own videos
- Use music and sound effects to create emotional impact

Make better movies and have fun making them with Core Training for Final Cut Pro 10.4.

[!button text="View on Mac App Store" target="blank" variant="info"](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/reading-is-fundamental/id1596591603?mt=12)

---

<img src="https://fcp.cafe/static/final-cut-pro-efficient-editing-10.6-cover-image.jpeg" align="right" style="height:123px !important; width:100px !important; " />

### Final Cut Pro Efficient Editing (Book)

A comprehensive, best-practice guide from Apple Certified Trainer Iain Anderson. With illustrated step-by-step instructions, you’ll explore Final Cut Pro by following an editing workflow from shoot to delivery.

#### User Reviews

:::review
{{ include "five-stars.md" }}

This book rocks!

This is a incredibly written book. Intuitive, in-depth and a essential for the beginner and the experienced. This book is as detailed as FCP itself being only limited by the imagination, editors, storytellers or creatives. Surely a must have for me and hopefully you as well.

_[Jason Mark Williams](https://www.amazon.com/gp/profile/amzn1.account.AH3XA7QZT2B5RLTUP2VMLHY6BMOA/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_gw_tr?ie=UTF8)_
:::

:::review
{{ include "five-stars.md" }}

An amazing guide through FCPX, for both novices and experienced editors.

Forget your old stereo instructions. For a technical manual, this book is a very easy and enjoyable read.

What it is: a wide-ranging look at all things Final Cut Pro X. That means it’s written with sections for editing novices, which go over the absolute basics. And other sections aimed at experienced editors who either want to learn a new NLE (non-linear editor), or who know the basics of Final Cut and want to improve their workflow with efficiencies they haven’t discovered yet. The book even has a section on basic production tips for those who need the help. Personally, I am a highly experienced editor (who does not do production work) so I just skimmed that section, but even skimming it I picked up a few technical production details I wasn’t aware of before.

But the meat and bones focuses on using Final Cut Pro X. And it’s fantastic! Iain Anderson is a gifted teacher, able to explain concepts and fine points to novices and experienced editors alike with easy readability. The sections are so clearly delineated that it’s easy to jump to specific knowledge you are looking for, or you can just work your way through the book from start to finish.

Highly recommended for those wanting to dive into FCPX’s depths, or who want to dip their toes in the water for the first time.

_[M. Yanovich](https://www.amazon.com/gp/profile/amzn1.account.AFIP4EGME4RW43GZBTUOBEKX2WOA/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_gw_tr?ie=UTF8)_
:::

:::review
{{ include "five-stars.md" }}

Exactly as described. Excellent Book.

This thick book has everything you want to know about editing. Great value and fast delivery.

I would highly recommend this purchase. I’ll be busy reading over Christmas and right into Easter!

Thank You!

_[Eemies](https://www.amazon.com/gp/profile/amzn1.account.AFIP4EGME4RW43GZBTUOBEKX2WOA/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_gw_tr?ie=UTF8)_
:::

[!button text="Buy on Apple Books" target="blank" variant="info"](https://books.apple.com/au/book/final-cut-pro-efficient-editing/id1527510084)

---

### Final Cut Pro Power Tips (Book)

Larry Jordan’s highly illustrated guide is packed with over 520 power tips, techniques, shortcuts and hidden gems designed to make you more productive right now.

[!button text="Buy at Peachpit" target="blank" variant="info"](https://www.peachpit.com/store/final-cut-pro-power-tips-9780137928798)

---

### Final Cut Pro: Pro Workflow (Book)

Proven feature-film techniques from Michael Matzdorff, first assistant editor on the Warner Bros. film Focus starring Will Smith, which was edited entirely in Final Cut Pro.

[!button text="Buy on Apple Books" target="blank" variant="info"](https://itunes.apple.com/au/book/final-cut-pro-x-pro-workflow/id971472119?mt=11&v0=www-us-finalcutprox-resources-book-fcpxproworkflow)

---

### Getting Started for FCP 10.4 (Mac App)

Getting Started for Final Cut Pro 10.4 is a free 10-lesson video series that will guide you through the basics of using Final Cut Pro 10.4 using provided media, so you can quickly begin editing and delivering a short video project from start to finish.

With Getting Started for Final Cut Pro 10.4, you'll learn how to:

- Navigate the interface
- Save a custom workspace
- Skim and select media in the Browser
- Import media and view your metadata
- Select, tag, and rate clips
- Assemble clips into your project timeline
- Use the trim tools to edit your clips
- Add music to your video
- Adjust volume and add audio fades
- Add titles, transitions, and effects
- Share your movies and much more!

Fast and focused:

- 10 lessons that include everything you need to get started
- Professionally produced media is included
- Lessons are short - about 4 minutes each

Have fun learning:

- Lessons are delivered in a relaxed style by a professional editor
- Follow along as you creates a fun, engaging movie from scratch
- Easily switch between the App and Final Cut Pro X to practice what you learn

Getting Started for Final Cut Pro 10.4 will help you to:

- Begin video editing with no previous experience
- Learn concepts you can apply to your own videos
- Share your video with your friends

Get started making movies and have fun making them

[!button text="View on Mac App Store" target="blank" variant="info"](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/getting-started-for-fcp-10-4/id1176318027?mt=12)

---

### iJustine Teaches FCP X (Mac App)

Follow along with popular YouTuber iJustine, as she teaches you her complete end-to-end workflow for creating and delivering videos using Apple’s Final Cut Pro X editing software.

This tutorial was designed for new user of Final Cut Pro X or anyone who wants to see how a successful content creator uses Final Cut Pro effectively and efficiently.

Justine’s tutorial is presented in 16 highly-focused lessons that cover each step in her editing process - importing and organizing media; multicam editing; adding b-roll and music; color correcting; adding titles and effects; exporting for YouTube and more!

Because doing is better than just watching, Justine has provided all the media from one of her YouTube videos so you can follow along with her in your own copy of Final Cut Pro X.

Edit with iJustine in Final Cut Pro X

- Learn efficient methods for importing media
- Organize your media with Keyword Collections
- Perform a multicam edit using 2 camera sources
- Add b-roll and music to shape your story
- Learn ultra-fast trimming and editing methods
- Improve and enhance your soundtrack
- Work with Connected Clips & Storylines
- Color correct and improve the look of your clips
- Add titles, transitions and effects
- Use FCP’s built-in intelligence for quickly locating clips
- Learn Justine’s preferred sharing methods for YouTube
- Learn Justine’s favorite keyboard shortcuts

Learn at your own pace:

- 16 lessons covering a wide spectrum of Justine’s editing workflows
- Chapter markers are included for jumping to specific topics
- Keyboard helper overlays help you remember important shortcuts
- Lessons are short - about 5 -8 minutes each
- Watch them continuously or just a few at a time

Have fun learning:

- Lessons are delivered by Justine Ezarik - a popular YouTuber with over 5 million subscribers
- Follow along as you learn her way of editing

This app will help you to:

- Learn Final Cut Pro in a systematic way
- Learn concepts you can immediately apply to your own videos
- Become more efficient in order to save you time when editing

Make better movies and have fun making them using iJustine Teaches Final Cut Pro X!

[!button text="View on Mac App Store" target="blank" variant="info"](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/ijustine-teaches-fcp-x/id1474163299?mt=12)

---

{{ include "contribute-learn-more.md" }}

---

{{ include "giscus.md" }}

Commit message:

Monday 5th June 2023
- Added Continuum FCPX Looks to Motion Templates
- Added Audio Design Desk to Tools
- Added An Awesome Guide to Training

docs/training.md, after:

<!--
An Awesome Guide (Website)
Core Training for FCP 10.4 (Mac App)
Final Cut Pro Efficient Editing (Book)
Final Cut Pro Power Tips (Book)
Final Cut Pro: Pro Workflow (Book)
Getting Started for FCP 10.4 (Mac App)
iJustine Teaches FCP X (Mac App)
-->
# Training

We're big fans of [Ripple Training](https://www.rippletraining.com){target="_blank"}.

Apple has a lot of training resources [here](https://www.apple.com/au/final-cut-pro/resources/){target="_blank"}.

---

!!!
Want to contribute or add your training? [Learn more here!](https://fcp.cafe/contribute/){target="_blank"}
!!!

---

### An Awesome Guide (Website)

Final Cut Pro Help is a collection of training, support, templates, and additional resources to assist you with Final Cut Pro.

Jared Ewing is an Apple Certified Final Cut Studio Master Pro and has been editing video for over 20 years. While growing up, trial and error was a common practice in learning to edit and shoot video. After attending Columbia College Chicago, Jared worked as a software trainer and hardware technician where he mastered the ability to explain complex topics in a straightforward and digestible way. Jared now uses his technical and creative skills to support you here at An Awesome Guide and the Final Cut Pro Help channels.

[!button text="Visit Website" target="blank" variant="info"](https://anawesomeguide.com)

---

### Core Training for FCP 10.4 (Mac App)

Core Training for Final Cut Pro 10.4 teaches you how to edit movies using Apple’s flagship professional video editing application.

With Core Training for Final Cut Pro 10.4, you'll learn how to:

- Navigate the interface
- Use Libraries and Events to organize your work
- Import media from cameras and drives
- Browse, rate, and add keywords to clips
- Edit clips into a project
- Reorder, replace, remove, and trim clips in project
- Work with photographs, sound effects, and music
- Color correct video
- Enhance and improve the soundtrack
- Edit and enhance 360° Videos
- Share your movies and much more!

Learn at your own pace

- 39 lessons covering a wide spectrum of workflows
- Chapter markers are included for jumping to specific topics
- Lessons are short - about 10 minutes each
- Watch them continuously or just a few at a time

Have fun learning

- Lessons are delivered in a relaxed style by a professional editor
- Follow along as you creates a fun, engaging movie from scratch
- Easily switch between the App and Final Cut Pro X to practice what you learn

Core Training for Final Cut Pro 10.4 will help you to:

- Focus on telling your story rather than figuring out software
- Learn concepts you can immediately apply to your own videos
- Use music and sound effects to create emotional impact

Make better movies and have fun making them with Core Training for Final Cut Pro 10.4.

[!button text="View on Mac App Store" target="blank" variant="info"](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/reading-is-fundamental/id1596591603?mt=12)

---

<img src="https://fcp.cafe/static/final-cut-pro-efficient-editing-10.6-cover-image.jpeg" align="right" style="height:123px !important; width:100px !important; " />

### Final Cut Pro Efficient Editing (Book)

A comprehensive, best-practice guide from Apple Certified Trainer Iain Anderson. With illustrated step-by-step instructions, you’ll explore Final Cut Pro by following an editing workflow from shoot to delivery.

#### User Reviews

:::review
{{ include "five-stars.md" }}

This book rocks!

This is a incredibly written book. Intuitive, in-depth and a essential for the beginner and the experienced. This book is as detailed as FCP itself being only limited by the imagination, editors, storytellers or creatives. Surely a must have for me and hopefully you as well.

_[Jason Mark Williams](https://www.amazon.com/gp/profile/amzn1.account.AH3XA7QZT2B5RLTUP2VMLHY6BMOA/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_gw_tr?ie=UTF8)_
:::

:::review
{{ include "five-stars.md" }}

An amazing guide through FCPX, for both novices and experienced editors.

Forget your old stereo instructions. For a technical manual, this book is a very easy and enjoyable read.

What it is: a wide-ranging look at all things Final Cut Pro X. That means it’s written with sections for editing novices, which go over the absolute basics. And other sections aimed at experienced editors who either want to learn a new NLE (non-linear editor), or who know the basics of Final Cut and want to improve their workflow with efficiencies they haven’t discovered yet. The book even has a section on basic production tips for those who need the help. Personally, I am a highly experienced editor (who does not do production work) so I just skimmed that section, but even skimming it I picked up a few technical production details I wasn’t aware of before.

But the meat and bones focuses on using Final Cut Pro X. And it’s fantastic! Iain Anderson is a gifted teacher, able to explain concepts and fine points to novices and experienced editors alike with easy readability. The sections are so clearly delineated that it’s easy to jump to specific knowledge you are looking for, or you can just work your way through the book from start to finish.

Highly recommended for those wanting to dive into FCPX’s depths, or who want to dip their toes in the water for the first time.

_[M. Yanovich](https://www.amazon.com/gp/profile/amzn1.account.AFIP4EGME4RW43GZBTUOBEKX2WOA/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_gw_tr?ie=UTF8)_
:::

:::review
{{ include "five-stars.md" }}

Exactly as described. Excellent Book.

This thick book has everything you want to know about editing. Great value and fast delivery.

I would highly recommend this purchase. I’ll be busy reading over Christmas and right into Easter!

Thank You!

_[Eemies](https://www.amazon.com/gp/profile/amzn1.account.AFIP4EGME4RW43GZBTUOBEKX2WOA/ref=cm_cr_dp_d_gw_tr?ie=UTF8)_
:::

[!button text="Buy on Apple Books" target="blank" variant="info"](https://books.apple.com/au/book/final-cut-pro-efficient-editing/id1527510084)

---

### Final Cut Pro Power Tips (Book)

Larry Jordan’s highly illustrated guide is packed with over 520 power tips, techniques, shortcuts and hidden gems designed to make you more productive right now.

[!button text="Buy at Peachpit" target="blank" variant="info"](https://www.peachpit.com/store/final-cut-pro-power-tips-9780137928798)

---

### Final Cut Pro: Pro Workflow (Book)

Proven feature-film techniques from Michael Matzdorff, first assistant editor on the Warner Bros. film Focus starring Will Smith, which was edited entirely in Final Cut Pro.

[!button text="Buy on Apple Books" target="blank" variant="info"](https://itunes.apple.com/au/book/final-cut-pro-x-pro-workflow/id971472119?mt=11&v0=www-us-finalcutprox-resources-book-fcpxproworkflow)

---

### Getting Started for FCP 10.4 (Mac App)

Getting Started for Final Cut Pro 10.4 is a free 10-lesson video series that will guide you through the basics of using Final Cut Pro 10.4 using provided media, so you can quickly begin editing and delivering a short video project from start to finish.

With Getting Started for Final Cut Pro 10.4, you'll learn how to:

- Navigate the interface
- Save a custom workspace
- Skim and select media in the Browser
- Import media and view your metadata
- Select, tag, and rate clips
- Assemble clips into your project timeline
- Use the trim tools to edit your clips
- Add music to your video
- Adjust volume and add audio fades
- Add titles, transitions, and effects
- Share your movies and much more!

Fast and focused:

- 10 lessons that include everything you need to get started
- Professionally produced media is included
- Lessons are short - about 4 minutes each

Have fun learning:

- Lessons are delivered in a relaxed style by a professional editor
- Follow along as you creates a fun, engaging movie from scratch
- Easily switch between the App and Final Cut Pro X to practice what you learn

Getting Started for Final Cut Pro 10.4 will help you to:

- Begin video editing with no previous experience
- Learn concepts you can apply to your own videos
- Share your video with your friends

Get started making movies and have fun making them

[!button text="View on Mac App Store" target="blank" variant="info"](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/getting-started-for-fcp-10-4/id1176318027?mt=12)

---

### iJustine Teaches FCP X (Mac App)

Follow along with popular YouTuber iJustine, as she teaches you her complete end-to-end workflow for creating and delivering videos using Apple’s Final Cut Pro X editing software.

This tutorial was designed for new user of Final Cut Pro X or anyone who wants to see how a successful content creator uses Final Cut Pro effectively and efficiently.

Justine’s tutorial is presented in 16 highly-focused lessons that cover each step in her editing process - importing and organizing media; multicam editing; adding b-roll and music; color correcting; adding titles and effects; exporting for YouTube and more!

Because doing is better than just watching, Justine has provided all the media from one of her YouTube videos so you can follow along with her in your own copy of Final Cut Pro X.

Edit with iJustine in Final Cut Pro X

- Learn efficient methods for importing media
- Organize your media with Keyword Collections
- Perform a multicam edit using 2 camera sources
- Add b-roll and music to shape your story
- Learn ultra-fast trimming and editing methods
- Improve and enhance your soundtrack
- Work with Connected Clips & Storylines
- Color correct and improve the look of your clips
- Add titles, transitions and effects
- Use FCP’s built-in intelligence for quickly locating clips
- Learn Justine’s preferred sharing methods for YouTube
- Learn Justine’s favorite keyboard shortcuts

Learn at your own pace:

- 16 lessons covering a wide spectrum of Justine’s editing workflows
- Chapter markers are included for jumping to specific topics
- Keyboard helper overlays help you remember important shortcuts
- Lessons are short - about 5 -8 minutes each
- Watch them continuously or just a few at a time

Have fun learning:

- Lessons are delivered by Justine Ezarik - a popular YouTuber with over 5 million subscribers
- Follow along as you learn her way of editing

This app will help you to:

- Learn Final Cut Pro in a systematic way
- Learn concepts you can immediately apply to your own videos
- Become more efficient in order to save you time when editing

Make better movies and have fun making them using iJustine Teaches Final Cut Pro X!

[!button text="View on Mac App Store" target="blank" variant="info"](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/ijustine-teaches-fcp-x/id1474163299?mt=12)

---

{{ include "contribute-learn-more.md" }}

---

{{ include "giscus.md" }}
