docs/wishlist.md, before:

# Wish List

This page is dedicated to keeping track of Final Cut Pro feature requests, via our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

To submit a new feature request, simply sign up for a free GitHub account and post an issue [here](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

[GitHub](https://github.com){target="_blank"} is a **safe and secure** developers platform used by **over 73 million users** worldwide.

We also keep track of the most popular feature requests, based on the amount of reactions the issues get.

In general, whenever posting a new feature request to GitHub, we also submit feedback directly to Apple via [Feedback Assistant](https://feedbackassistant.apple.com){target="_blank"}, and make a note of the Feedback Assistant ID in the issue.

Richard Taylor also maintains a list of [101+ Requests for Final Cut Pro](https://fcpx.tv/top.html).

---

### Most Popular

Here's a list of the **30 most popular** Final Cut Pro feature requests:

{{ include "wishlist-reactions" }}

The above list is pulled from our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

---

### Recently Added

Here's a list of the **30 most recently added** Final Cut Pro feature requests:

{{ include "wishlist-recent" }}

The above list is pulled from our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

---

!!!
Want to contribute? [Learn more here!](/contribute/)
!!!

Commit message:

Added links to Bug Tracker & Wish List

docs/wishlist.md, after:

# Wish List

This page is dedicated to keeping track of Final Cut Pro feature requests, via our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

To submit a new feature request, simply sign up for a free GitHub account and post an issue [here](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues/new/choose){target="_blank"}.

[GitHub](https://github.com){target="_blank"} is a **safe and secure** developers platform used by **over 73 million users** worldwide.

We also keep track of the most popular feature requests, based on the amount of reactions the issues get.

In general, whenever posting a new feature request to GitHub, we also submit feedback directly to Apple via [Feedback Assistant](https://feedbackassistant.apple.com){target="_blank"}, and make a note of the Feedback Assistant ID in the issue.

**Richard Taylor** also maintains a list of [101+ Requests for Final Cut Pro](https://fcpx.tv/top.html).

---

!!!success Want to add something to the Wish List?
Create a free GitHub account then [click here](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues/new/choose){target="_blank"}!
!!!

---

### Most Popular

Here's a list of the **30 most popular** Final Cut Pro feature requests:

{{ include "wishlist-reactions" }}

The above list is pulled from our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

---

### Recently Added

Here's a list of the **30 most recently added** Final Cut Pro feature requests:

{{ include "wishlist-recent" }}

The above list is pulled from our [GitHub issues site](https://github.com/CommandPost/FCPCafe/issues){target="_blank"}.

---

!!!
Want to contribute? [Learn more here!](/contribute/)
!!!
